EVALUATION OF AUTOMATIC CLASS III DESIGNATION FOR
CONTACT
DECISION SUMMARY
A. De Novo Number:
DEN170073
B. Purpose for Submission:
De novo request for evaluation of automatic class III designation for Viz.AI, ContaCT
C. Applicant:
Viz.AI
D. Proprietary and Established Names:
ContaCT
E. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
CFR 892.2080
2. Classification:
Class II Special Controls
3 Product code:
QAS
4. Panel:
90 (Radiology)
F. Indications for Use:
1. Indications for Use:
ContaCT is a notification-only, parallel workflow tool for use by hospital networks and
trained clinicians to identify and communicate images of specific patients to a specialist,
1independent of standard of care workflow.
ContaCT uses an artificial intelligence algorithm to analyze images for findings
suggestive of a pre-specified clinical condition and to notify an appropriate medical
specialist of these findings in parallel to standard of care image interpretation.
Identification of suspected findings is not for diagnostic use beyond notification.
Specifically, the device analyzes CT angiogram images of the brain acquired in the acute
setting, and sends notifications to a neurovascular specialist that a suspected large vessel
occlusion has been identified and recommends review of those images. Images can be
previewed through a mobile application.
Images that are previewed through the mobile application are compressed and are for
informational purposes only and not intended for diagnostic use beyond notification.
Notified clinicians are responsible for viewing non-compressed images on a diagnostic
viewer and engaging in appropriate patient evaluation and relevant discussion with a
treating physician before making care-related decisions or requests. ContaCT is limited to
analysis of imaging data and should not be used in-lieu of full patient evaluation or relied
upon to make or confirm diagnosis.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
For prescription use only
3. Warnings, precautions, and limitations:
Identification of suspected findings is not for diagnostic use beyond notification.
Images that are previewed through the mobile application are compressed and are for
informational purposes only and not intended for diagnostic use beyond notification.
Notified clinicians are responsible for viewing non-compressed images on a diagnostic
viewer and engaging in appropriate patient evaluation and relevant discussion with a
treating physician before making care-related decisions or requests.
ContaCT is limited to analysis of imaging data and should not be used in-lieu of full
patient evaluation or relied upon to make or confirm diagnosis.
G. Device Description:
ContaCT is a notification only, parallel workflow tool installed across the stroke network in
healthcare facilities to identify and communicate images and information of specific patients
(b) (4)
to a neurovascular specialist patients’ CT
scan. As discussed below, the device facilitates a workflow parallel to the standard of care
workflow, and, in the case of a true positive study, results in a notified specialist entering the
standard of care workflow earlier (see Figure 1 below).
2(o) (4)
The device works in parallel to the standard of care workflow. After a CTA has been
peifonned, a copy of the study is automatically sent to and processed by ContaCT. ContaCT
peifonns vessel segmentation and quantifies image characteristics consistent with a Large
Vessel Occlusion (LVO) in a large cerebral vessel, and sends a notification based on a fixed
threshold to a neurovascular specialist, recommending review of these images. Notifications
provide links to preview a compressed version of the identified study on a mobile
application.
1. Description of triage and notification effects (Special Control I .iii.)
Depending on the results of image processing, the parallel workflow created by the
device via a notification has the potential to positively impact the standard of care.
Specifically, in the event of a Trne Positive (TP) study identified by the device, ContaCT
parallel workflow allows a neurovascular specialist to become involved sooner in the
workflow.
ill the event that the device identifies a False Negative (FN) case and improperly
concludes a study does not contain a suspected LVO, no notification is sent and the case
will be identified through the standard of care workflow without intenuption.
ill the event that the device identifies a False Positive (FP), the specialist receiving the
notification would preview the images and fmiher evaluate the provided imaging on a
diagnostic imaging system prior to disregarding the study, leaving the standard of care
unintenupted. The small amount of disrnption to the specialist's time does not affect the
patient.
Similarly, if the device identifies a Trne Negative (TN) case, no notification is sent and
the standard of care is uninte1n1pted. ill all scenarios, trained radiologists read all images
per standard of care, regardless of the perfo1mance of the ContaCT Device.
ill sum and as noted above, the device is intended to send notifications and non-
3diagnostic images from DICOM studies so as to alert a specialist as to the timely
existence of a case that may potentially benefit from that specialist’s attention, who
would have reviewed them at a later time, had the device not been available.
2. Technological Characteristics
ContaCT is a software only device that can be segmented into three components: (1)
Image Forwarding Software, (2) Image Processing and Analysis Software, and (3) Image
Viewing Software.
(1) The Image Forwarding Software is configured by the hospital to interact with a
healthcare facility’s scanner, PACS or local DICOM router and is responsible for
automatically transmitting a copy of DICOM files from the local router through a
secured channel to the Image Processing and Analysis Software based on DICOM
metadata.
(2) The Image Processing and Analysis Software component of the device is hosted on a
server and is responsible for receiving, assembling, processing, analyzing and storing
DICOM images. This software component includes the software algorithm that is
responsible for automatic filtering and excluding studies that are incomplete, of
unacceptable technical quality, or inappropriate physiology, and identifying and
quantifying image characteristics that are consistent with an LVO in acceptable
studies. When the software algorithm detects imaging characteristics suggestive of a
LVO, the Image Processing and Analysis Software component sends a notification to
the specialist identifying the study of interest. While the software algorithm informs
the notification process, no other diagnostic information is generated from the
algorithm or available to the user beyond the notification.
(3) The Image Viewing Software component is a non-diagnostic DICOM viewing mobile
application, allowing a trained clinician to view original non-contrast CT and CTA
studies with basic viewing functions (scroll through a cine, adjust window level and
window width, adjust MIP thickness, pan, and zoom) prior to definitive review of
images on a diagnostic workstation.
3. Software Algorithm Summary (Special Control 1.i.)
The ContaCT algorithm identifies applicable CTA series and verifies that contrast is
visible in the soft matter of the brain and that no metallic artifacts such as aneurism clips
are present in the soft matter of the brain. Skull stripping and registration steps are
performed. The large vessels are identified and segmented, and the amount of extension
of the contrast filled segments is compared to a pre-defined threshold. If the threshold
exceeds the magnitude of the contrast filled segment, a notification is generated.
Training CTA studies were used from multiple facilities to develop and train the
algorithm. Three algorithm training phases included: initial development and training;
pre- and post- processing fine-tuning; and threshold optimization. The training cases are
4(b) (4)
The following figure presents the ROC and performance curves of the algorithm in the
standalone performance dataset. The estimated area under the curve (AUC) is .91; the
fixed optimum threshold, 60mm, is marked with the vertical dashed line:
,
,
,
,
,
,'
0.8 ,
,
,
.l!,! ,
a.:,
0.6 ,
.~ , ,
·~
0..,.
,
f; 0.4 , ,
0.2
=
ROC curve (area 0.91)
Threshold=60mm
0.0
0.0 0.4 0.6 0.8
False Positive Rate
H. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced
NEMA PS 3.1 - 3.20 (2016), Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM)
set. FDA recognition number 12-300.
Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions
for Software Contained in Medical Devices (issued May 11, 2005)
Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff: Computer -Assisted
Detection Devices Applied to Radiology Images and Radiology Device Data – Premarket
Notification [510(k)] Submissions (issued July 3, 2012)
5I. Performance Characteristics:
The device is a software-only device. Some common performance characteristics for other
device types are included below with a note that these characteristics are not applicable to
this type of software-only device.
1. Biocompatibility/Materials
Not applicable
2. Shelf Life/Sterility
Not applicable
3. Electromagnetic Compatibility and Electrical Safety
Not applicable
4. Magnetic Resonance (MR) Compatibility
Not applicable
Nonclinical performance data were provided to address the following areas:
5. Software (Special Control 1.v.)
The device is a software only device.
Viz.AI provided software documentation at a Moderate Level of Concern according to
the “Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in
Medical Devices (May 11, 2005).
Version: 1.0
Level of Concern: Moderate
Software Description: Viz.AI provided a general description of the features in the
software documentation and in the device description. The device includes three
components including image forwarding software, cloud analysis software, and
mobile device notification software. The description of the software is consistent with
the device functionality described in the device description.
Device Hazard Analysis: Viz.AI provided separate analyses for the backend, cloud,
and mobile application. The content of the hazard analysis is sufficient and assesses
pre- and post- mitigation risks. The device hazard analysis includes:
• identification of the hazardous event
• severity of the hazard
6• probability of the hazard
• cause(s) of the hazard
• method of control or mitigation
• corrective measures taken, including an explanation of the aspects of the
device design/requirements, that eliminate, reduce, or warn of a hazardous
event
• verification of the control implementation is traceable through the enumerated
traceability matrix
Software Requirement Specifications (SRS): The SRS includes documents for the
backend and mobile platforms. Each document includes user, engineering,
algorithmic, cybersecurity, and various other types of requirements that give a full
description of the functionality of the device. The SRS is consistent with the device
description and software description.
Architecture Design Chart: The architecture design chart provides the software
overview and includes flow diagrams representative of process flow for various
features of the ContaCT software.
Software Design Specification: Page 43 Section E. The SDS is traceable to the SRS
and demonstrates how individual requirements are implemented in the software design
and includes appropriate linkages to predefined verification testing.
Traceability Analysis/Matrix: Viz.AI provided traceability between all documents
including the SRS, SDS, and subsequent Verification and Validation. Hazards
Mitigations are traceable throughout all documents.
Software Development Environment: Viz.AI outlined the software development
environment and the processes/procedures used for medical device software
development. The content is consistent with expected quality system norms.
Verification and Validation Testing: The validation and system level verifications
procedures are based upon the requirements with clearly defined test procedures and
pass/fail criteria. All tests passed. Unit level test procedures, actual, and expected
results are included for all design specifications. V&V testing included systems to
ensure that input images meet input specification ranges.
Revision Level History: This is the initial version 1.0 for the device. The standalone
testing study was completed with this version of the device.
Unresolved Anomalies: Viz.AI stated that there are no unresolved anomalies.
Cybersecurity: The cybersecurity documentation is consistent with the
recommendations for information that should be included in premarket submissions
outlined in the FDA guidance document Content of Premarket Submissions for
Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Guidance for Industry and Food
and Drug Administration Staff (issued October 2, 2014). Information related to
cybersecurity reviewed included: Hazard analysis related to cybersecurity risks,
traceability documentation linking cybersecurity controls to risks considered,
summary plan for validating software updates and patches throughout the lifecycle of
the medical device, summary describing controls in place to ensure that the medical
device will maintain its integrity, and device instructions for use and product
specifications related to recommended cybersecurity controls appropriate for the
intended use of the device.
76. Standalone Performance Testing Protocols and Results (Special Control 1.iv.)
Viz.AI conducted a retrospective study to assess the sensitivity and specificity of the
image analysis algorithm and notification functionality of ContaCT against a ground truth
as established by trained neuro-radiologists in the detection of large vessel occlusions
(LVO) in the brain, and to compare the Standard of Care with ContaCT on CTA-to-
notification time.
a. Data Characteristics (Special Control 1.ii.)
Three hundred (300) CT angiogram (CTA) images (studies) were obtained from two
clinical sites in the U.S. There were approximately equal numbers of positive and
negative cases (images with LVO and without LVO, respectively) included in the
analysis.
Inclusion Criteria:
• The patient is older than 22 years of age when presenting to the healthcare
facility;
• The images were from patients who underwent a stroke protocol assessment;
and
• Received a head and neck CTA.
Exclusion Criteria:
Series used to identify potential LVOs were axial thin slice CTAs. CTA series may
have been excluded because of insufficient technical quality. Exclusion criteria
included:
• Series containing metal artifacts in the soft matter of the brain;
• Series that are non-axial;
• Series containing missing slices;
• Series displaying no visible contrast due to bad bolus timing during the series
acquisition process;
• Series containing inconsistent pixel spacing;
• Series containing slices thicker than 0.625mm;
• Series containing improperly ordered slices (e.g. as a result of manual
correction by an Imaging technician); and
• Series containing an incomplete skull.
b. Test Protocol
All 300 studies were reviewed by neuro-radiologists to establish the Ground Truth;
each study was reviewed to determine if the image contained image features
consistent with an LVO, and thus required further review. In cases where the neuro-
radiologists did not agree on whether a study required further review, an additional
8neuro-radiologist provided an additional opinion and established a ground truth by
majority consensus.
Each study was forwarded to the ContaCT device, and then processed and analyzed.
When ContaCT identified a suspected LVO in a test study, it sent a notification to the
mobile application component recommending further review of the study. A log of
notifications was maintained by the testing facility and compared with respect to the
Ground Truth for each case. Each case was classified based on the following table:
Output
(Recommends Urgent Review)
Yes No
Ground Trutlh Yes True Positive (TP) False Negative (FN)
(Emergent Review
Recommended) No False Positive (FP) True Negative (TN)
c. Endpoints
Primary Analysis: Sensitivity and Specificity
The sensitivity and specificity of the device performance were calculated using two-
sided 95% Clopper-Pearson confidence intervals and compared to pre-defined
performance goals.
Sensitivity was calculated as follows: TP / (TP+FN)
Specificity was calculated as follows: TN / (TN+FP)
Study endpoints and performance goals:
(b) (4)
Secondary Analysis: CTA-to-Notification Time
As a secondary analysis, the company compared the Standard of Care CTA-to-
notification time with the equivalent metric observed for ContaCT.
In standard clinical practice, a final radiology report is produced following dictation,
review, and signoff of that report by the attending radiologist responsible for
reviewing the study. Then, the referring physician or a neuro-interventional specialist
is typically verbally notified by the attending radiologist of findings that require
urgent review. Following this verbal notification, the radiologist completes his or her
review of the images and completes a full radiologist report, in which they document
the time that they notified the responsible doctor. The time of the specialist
notification was used as the Standard of Care time-to-notification in this analysis.
9ContaCT' s time-to-notification of potentially concerning findings is directly
analogous to this Standard of Care meti·ic.
d. Test Results
Sensitivity and Specificity
Sensitivity and specificity were calculated comparing the ContaCT's output to the
Ground Trnth as established by ti·ained neuro-radiologists. Sensitivity and specificity
were 87.8% (95% CI: 81.2% -92.5% and 89.6% 95% CI: 83.7% - 93.9%
res ectivel . (b) (4 )
Fmthennore, the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) was
0.91, demonsu-ating the clinical utility and ability of the device to effectively ti·iage
based on the imaging study results.
Time-to-Notification
The ContaCT CTA-to-notification time was documented for all 300 cases. The
Standard of Care CTA-to-notification time was available in 85 repo1ts of these 300
cases. Of these 85 cases, 44 were hue positives, i.e. identified by both ContaCT and
the ground tiuth as L VO positive. The Standard of Care times, ContaCT notification
times, and differences on those 44 cases that were also identified by ContaCT are
repo1ted below.
As shown in the table below, in these reports, the average and median CTA-to­
notification times were 58.72 minutes and 51.50 minutes, respectively, for the
Standard of Care (two-sided 95% confidence interval for the mean: [46.21, 71.23].
The average and median CTA-to-notification times were 7.32 minutes and 5.60
minutes, respectively, for ContaCT (two-sided 95% confidence interval for the mean:
[5.51, 9.13]). The mean and median difference in repo1ting times was 51.40 minutes
and 44.78 minutes, respectively (two sided 95% confidence interval of the mean
difference [36.32, 58.72]). In 42 of the 44 studies (95.5%), the notification from
ContaCT an-ived earlier than the Standard of Care [r ange: 6.1 - 206.4 minutes earlier].
The total range of observed per-study differences was -12.7 minutes to 206.4 minutes.
Thus, ContaCT tends to substantially sho1ten the time to notifying the specialist for
L VO cases as compared with the Standard of Care.
The ContaCT time-to-notification consists almost entirely of the time the device takes
to process the data and produce a result. Notifying the specialist of the device result
takes mere seconds. Standard of Care time-to-notification consisted of the time from
the initial scan of the patient to when the radiologist reviews the images, identifies the
urgent finding, in this case a LVO, and pages or phones the responsible specialist to
relate the findings verbally prior to generating a study repo11.
10Standard of Care Time to Notification of
Specialist for LVO cases (mins)
(N=44)
Average [95%CI] 58.72 [46.21, 71.23]
Median 51.50
Standard 41.14
Deviation
Standard of Care Time to Notification for LVO cases: This Standard of Care
real-world data was collected from radiology reports that documented the time
the radiologist notified the specialist of a critical finding (an LVO) during a wet
read and compared to the timestamp from when the CTA was completed to
generate a standard of care Time to Notification of Specialist.
Viz ContaCT Time to Notification of
Specialist for LVO cases (mins)
(N=44)
Average [95%CI] 7.32 [5.51, 9.13]
Median 5.60
Standard 5.95
Deviation
Viz ContaCT Time to Notification of Specialist for LVO cases: This data was
collected during the standalone performance testing of the ContaCT device.
Real World Evidence
Real world evidence from literature suggests that there is a patient benefit associated
with earlier involvement of the neurovascular specialist in the treatment of LVOs.(1)
Endovascular therapy is highly time-critical,(2) with each minute saved in onset-to-
treatment time resulting in an average 4.2 days of extra healthy life.(3) Meretoja et al.
notes that small reductions in endovascular delays lead to marked health benefits over
patients’ lifetimes and that services should be optimized to reduce delays to
endovascular therapy.(3) It is well known that the neurovascular specialist plays a
critical role in the management of LVO patients and that earlier involvement of the
neurovascular specialist clearly benefits LVO patients.
11ContaCT is designed to facilitate the involvement of a neurovascular specialist sooner
in the process of reviewing images for suspected LVOs. Literature suggests that the
time from initial presentation to eventual reperfusion is lengthy. Specifically, median
onset-to-revascularization time has been repo1ied as 202.0 minutes for direct to
interventional centers, and 311.5 minutes for patients that initially presented to a non­
interventional center_C4 Paii of that time is the time-from-initial-CTA -scan to the
)
time-that-the-neurovasculai·-specialist-is-notified-of-a-possible-LV O (the CTA to­
notification time), which is the paii of the workflow where the Viz.ai softwai·e would
be utilized. Sun CH et al. break down the relevant time periods demonstrating an
initial CT to CSC (Comprehensive Stroke Center) notification time per standard of
care of>60 minutes.C5 )
This is sirnilai· to Time to Notification ofS pecialist for LVO cases (mins) reported
above.
1) Goyal, M., Menon, B. K., van Zwam, W. H., Dippel, D. W. J., Mitchell, P. J., Demchuk, A. M., ...
Jovin, T. G. (2017). Endovascular thrombectomy after large-vessel ischaemic stroke: a meta-analysis of
individual patient data from five randomised trials. The Lancet, 387(10029), 1723-1731.
2) Fransen PS, Berkhemer OA, Lingsma HF, et al. Time to reperfusion and treatment effect for acute
ischemic stroke: a randomized clinical trial. JAMA Neurol 2016;73:190-196.
3) Meretoja, A., Keshtkaran, M., Tatlisumak, T., Dollllan, G. A., & Cluu-ilov, L. (2017).
Endovascular therapy for ischemic stroke. Neurology, 88(22), 2123 LP-2127.
4) Froehler, M. T., Saver, J. L., Zaidat, 0 . 0 ., Jahan, R., Aziz-Sultan, M. A., Klucznick, R. P., Mueller­
Kronast, N. H. (2017). Interhospital Transfer Prior to Thrombectomy is Associated with Delayed
Treatment and Worse Outcome in the STRATIS Registry. Circulation.
5) Sun, C.-H. J., Nogueirn, R. G., Glellll, B. A, Collllelly, K., Zinunennann, S., Anda, K., et al. (2013).
"Picture to Puncnu·e" Circulation.
Conclusion (Special Control I .iii.)
The Qrimary endQoints of sensitivity and SQecificity exceeded {t>) (4)
,!.--.,----,-,,-,.-
. Specifically, sensitivity was
ooserved to oe 87.8% wi1li 95% confidence mterval C 81.2-92.5%. S ecificity was
observed to be 89.6% with 95% CI 83.7-93.9%. (5) (4)
In addition, the seconda1y time-to-notification analysis demonstrated that CTA-to­
notification time was longer for the Standai·d of Care than ContaCT. The mean
difference of 51.40 minutes was statistically significant and quantifies effective triage
for tme positive L VO positive cases for this device. The difference in any individual
will vaiy. The mean difference in this study may involve some bias because the
analysis could only be done on the subset of tme positive LV O cases with Standard of
Cai·e notification times. However, the large mean difference of 51.40 minutes in this
subset can be assumed to ove1whelm any such bias such that statistical significance
would likely be retained were an analysis of all hue positive LVO cases been
possible.
12These data and real world evidence, in combination, establish effective triage for the
image analysis algorithm and notification functionality of the ContaCT device as
compared to the Standard of Care. The evidence demonstrates that specialists may
have the opportunity to become involved in the clinical workflow substantially earlier
with notifications from the ContaCT software.
7. Animal and/or Cadaver Testing
None provided.
J. Summary of Clinical Information
Viz.AI didn’t conduct a clinical reader study for the underlying CAD as the device doesn’t
have diagnostic outputs other than the notification. Please refer to the standalone
performance testing above for Clinical Information.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 801, including 21
CFR Part 801.109 for prescription devices, and the special controls for this device type. The
ContaCT User Manual provides the detailed instructions for use (Special Control 2) Other
elements of the labeling for ContaCT related to the special controls for this device type are
noted below.
1. Indicated patient population (Special Control 2.i.)
ContaCT is indicated for patients older than 22 years of age. Additionally, the patient
should have undergone a stroke protocol assessment after presenting to the Healthcare
Facility and receive a head and neck CT angiogram (CTA) during their stroke protocol
assessment.
2. Indicated User population (Special Control 2.ii.)
The ContaCT mobile application is intended to be used by neurovascular specialists, such
as vascular neurologists, neuro-interventional specialists, or users with similar training
who have been pre-authorized by their Healthcare Organization or Facility.
3. Device Limitations (Special Control 2.iii.)
Identification of suspected findings is not for diagnostic use beyond notification. Images
that are previewed through the mobile application are compressed and are for
informational purposes only and not intended for diagnostic use beyond notification.
Notified clinicians are responsible for viewing non-compressed images on a diagnostic
viewer and engaging in appropriate patient evaluation and relevant discussion with a
treating physician before making care-related decisions or requests. ContaCT is limited to
analysis of imaging data and should not be used in-lieu of full patient evaluation or relied
13upon to make or confom diagnosis.
4. Compatible Hardware (Special Contrnl 2.iv.)
Recommended CTA acquisition parameters and exclusion parameters are included in the
labeling.
5. Device Instrnctions (Special Control 2.v.)
Adequate instrnctions for use are provided in the user's manual for ContaCT.
6. Perfo1mance Testing Summaiy (Special Control 2.vi.)
Standalone perfo1mance testing protocols, device peifonnance, algorithm summaiy, and
algorithm perfo1mance are included in Appendices in the user manual. The algorithm
peifonnance is repo1ied along with the ROC cmve.
L. Identified Risks to Health and Mitigation Measures
Identified Risks Mitieation Measures
Failure to prioritize images for Ce1iain design verification and validation
review with positive findings may activities identified in special control (1)
result in incon ect and/or delayed Ce1iain labeling info1mation identified in
patient management special control (2)
Positive notifications may result in Ce1iain design verification and validation
deprioritization of review of activities identified in special control (1)
images from other patients. Ce1iain labeling info1mation identified in
special control (2)
The device could be misused to Ce1iain design verification and validation
analyze images from an unintended activities identified in special control (1)
patient population or on images Ce1iain labeling info1mation identified in
acquired with incompatible special control (2)
imaging hai·dwai·e or incompatible
image acquisition pai·ameters,
leading to inappropriate
notifications being displayed to the
user.
Device failure could lead to the Ce1iain design verification and validation
absence of results, delay of results activities identified in special control (1)
or inconect results, which could Ce1iain labeling info1mation identified in
likewise lead to inaccurate patient special control (2)
assessment.
The triage and notification outputs Ce1iain design verification and validation
of the device ai·e inappropriately activities identified in special control (1)
used for primary interpretation or
14as an adjunct for diagnosis outside Certain labeling infonnation identified in
the intended use of the device. special contrnl (2)
M. Benefit/Risk Determination
Summary
Summary of the In Viz.Al's study the average and median CTA -to-notification times were 58.72
Benefit(s) minutes and 51.50 minutes, respectively, for the Standard of Care (two-sided
95% confidence interval for the mean: [46.21, 71 .23]. The average and median
CTA-to-notification times were 7.32 minutes and 5.60 minutes, respectively, for
ContaCT (two-sided 95% confidence interval for the mean: [5.51, 9.131). This is
also lower than the average time to notification of 66 minutes reported in
literature for LVO's diagnosed with CT Angiogram. The notification is informed
by the software algorithm with a sensitivity and specificity are 87.8% (81.2% -
92.5%) and 89.6% (83.7% - 93.9%), respectively.
The clinical benefit is that the device identifies patients who may benefit from
rapid intervention by a neurovascular specialist. The clinical benefit is that a
patient may be eligible for use of mechanical thrombectomy and/or tPA
administration. By using one or both of these techniques, a substantial relative
volume of brain may be able to be saved by timely intervention.
From an overall US public health perspective, by treating ischemic stroke of
large vessels more aggressively, as is now done for acute coronary artery
occlusion, the resulting amount of disability from ischemic stroke, which
remains a major cause of US disability in both men and women can potentially
be significantly decreased.
Summary of the There are no major risks for the device because the device operates in parallel
Risk(s) to the current usual standard of care.
Minor risks include:
• Failure to prioritize images for review with positive findings may result
in incorrect and/or delayed patient management.
• Positive notifications may result in deprioritisation of review of images
from other patients.
• The device could be misused to analyse images from an unintended
patient population or on images acquired with incompatible imaging
hardware or incompatible image acquisition parameters, leading to
inappropriate notifications being displayed to the user.
• Device failure could lead to the absence of results, delay of results or
incorrect results, which could likewise lead to inaccurate patient
assessment.
• The triage and notification outputs of the device are inappropriately
used for primary interpretation or as an adjunct for diagnosis outside
the intended use of the device.
15Summary of Other The device only notifies the neurovascular specialist. Beyond that it is up the
Factors regional healthcare delivery system to get the patient the neurovascular
specialist in the neurovascular interventional suite/operating room.
If adequately treated in time the patient will have no residual neurological
deficit. In some cases there may be a small residual neurological deficit. If the
disease is untreated, there may be loss of speech, recognition of words,
movement of the arms and/or legs, normal bowel and bladder control, or other
neurologic functions resulting potentially in long term disability.
Conclusions Yes. The benefit of ContaCT, namely, early identification and notification of a
Do the probable specialist significantly outweighs the minimal risk of a small amount of the
benefits outweigh the specialists time needed to review and disregard a false positive. In the case of
probable risks? a false negative, the standard of care workflow prevails, so there is no risk
compared to standard of care for the patient. In general, there is no direct risk
to the patient as this is a notification only, software only device. There are no
significant risks which have not been mitigated via clinical testing and labelling.
Therefore, given the available information concerning the benefits, risks, and
supporting data, the probable benefits for the device outweighs the probable
risks, given the combination of general controls and special controls established
for this device.
Patient Perspectives
This submission did not include specific infonnation on patient perspectives for this device.
N. Conclusion
The info1mation provided in this de novo submission is sufficient to classify this device into
class II under regulation 21 CFR 892.2080. FDA believes that the stated special controls, in
combination with the applicable general controls, provide reasonable assurance of the safety
and effectiveness of the device type. The device is classified under the following:
Product Code: QAS
Device Type: Radiological computer aided triage and notification software.
Class: II (special controls)
Regulation: 21 CFR 892.2080
(a) Identification. Radiological computer aided triage and notification software is an
image processing prescription device intended to aid in prioritization and triage of
radiological medical images. The device notifies a designated list of clinicians of the
availability of time sensitive radiological medical images for review based on
computer aided image analysis of those images perfo1med by the device. The device
does not mark, highlight, or direct users' attention to a specific location in the
16original image. The device does not remove cases from a reading queue. The device
operates in parallel with the standard of care, which remains the default option for all
cases.
(b) Classification. Class II (Special Controls). Radiological computer aided triage and
notification software must comply with the following special controls:
1. Design verification and validation must include:
i. A detailed description of the notification and triage algorithms and all
underlying image analysis algorithms including, but not limited to, a
detailed description of the algorithm inputs and outputs, each major
component or block, how the algorithm affects or relates to clinical
practice or patient care, and any algorithm limitations.
ii. A detailed description of pre-specified performance testing protocols and
dataset(s) used to assess whether the device will provide effective triage
(e.g., improved time to review of prioritized images for pre-specified
clinicians).
iii. Results from performance testing that demonstrate that the device will
provide effective triage. The performance assessment must be based on an
appropriate measure to estimate the clinical effectiveness. The test dataset
must contain sufficient numbers of cases from important cohorts (e.g.,
subsets defined by clinically relevant confounders, effect modifiers,
associated diseases, and subsets defined by image acquisition
characteristics) such that the performance estimates and confidence
intervals for these individual subsets can be characterized with the device
for the intended use population and imaging equipment.
iv. Standalone performance testing protocols and results of the device.
v. Appropriate software documentation (e.g., device hazard analysis;
software requirements specification document; software design
specification document; traceability analysis; description of verification
and validation activities including system level test protocol, pass/fail
criteria, and results).
2. Labeling must include the following:
i. A detailed description of the patient population for which the device is
indicated for use.
ii. A detailed description of the intended user and user training that addresses
appropriate use protocols for the device.
17iii. Discussion of warnings, precautions, and limitations must include
situations in which the device may fail or may not operate at its expected
performance level (e.g., poor image quality for certain subpopulations), as
applicable
iv. A detailed description of compatible imaging hardware, imaging
protocols, and requirements for input images.
v. Device operating instructions.
vi. A detailed summary of the performance testing, including: test methods,
dataset characteristics, triage effectiveness (e.g., improved time to review
of prioritized images for pre-specified clinicians), diagnostic accuracy of
algorithms informing triage decision, and results with associated statistical
uncertainty (e.g., confidence intervals), including a summary of sub-
analyses on case distributions stratified by relevant confounders, such as
lesion and organ characteristics, disease stages, and imaging equipment.
18