DE NOVO CLASSIFICATION REQUEST FOR
ACUMEN HYPOTENSION PREDICTION INDEX FEATURE SOFTWARE
REGULATORY INFORMATION
FDA identifies this generic type of device as:
Adjunctive predictive cardiovascular indicator. The adjunctive predictive
cardiovascular indicator is a prescription device that uses software algorithms to analyze
cardiovascular vital signs and predict future cardiovascular status or events. This device
is intended for adjunctive use with other physical vital sign parameters and patient
information and is not intended to independently direct therapy.
NEW REGULATION NUMBER: 21 CFR 870.2210
CLASSIFICATION: II
PRODUCT CODE: QAQ
BACKGROUND
DEVICE NAME: Acumen Hypotension Prediction Index (HPI) Feature Software
SUBMISSION NUMBER: DEN160044
DATE OF DE NOVO: September 26, 2016
CONTACT: Edwards Lifesciences LLC
One Edwards Way
Irvine, CA 92614
INDICATIONS FOR USE
The Edwards Lifesciences Acumen Hypotension Prediction Index (HPI) feature provides the
clinician with physiological insight into a patient’s likelihood of future hypotensive events
(defined as mean arterial pressure < 65 mmHg for at least one minute in duration) and the
associated hemodynamics. The Acumen HPI feature is intended for use in operating room (OR)
patients receiving advanced hemodynamic monitoring. The Acumen HPI feature is considered to
be additional quantitative information regarding the patient’s physiological condition for
reference only and no therapeutic decisions should be made based solely on the Hypotension
Prediction Index (HPI) parameter.
LIMITATIONS
The sale, distribution, and use of the Acumen Hypotension Prediction Index Feature are
restricted to prescription use in accordance with 21 CFR § 801.109.
De Novo Summary (DEN160044) Page 1 of 14Inaccurate FloTrac/Cardiac Output (FT-CO) measurements can be caused by factors such as:
x Improperly zeroed and/or leveled sensor/transducer
x Over- or under-damped pressure lines
x Excessive variations in blood pressure. Some conditions that cause BP variations include,
but are not limited to:
o Intra-aortic balloon pumps
x Any clinical situation where the arterial pressure is deemed inaccurate or not
representative of aortic pressure, including but not limited to:
o Extreme peripheral vasoconstriction which results in a compromised radial
arterial pressure waveform
o Hyperdynamic conditions as seen in post liver transplant
x Excessive patient movement
x Electrocautery or electrosurgical unit interference
x Aortic valve regurgitation may cause an over estimation of Stroke Volume / Cardiac
Output calculated depending on the amount of valvular disease and the volume lost
back into the left ventricle.
The Hypotension Prediction Index, HPI, should not be used exclusively to treat the patients. A
review of the patient’s hemodynamics is recommended prior to initiating treatment.
Exercise caution when using dP/dt in patients with severe aortic stenosis, since the stenosis may
reduce the coupling between the left ventricle and the afterload.
PLEASE REFER TO THE LABELING FOR A MORE COMPLETE LIST OF WARNINGS,
PRECAUTIONS AND CONTRAINDICATIONS.
De Novo Summary (DEN160044) Page 2 of 14DEVICE DESCRIPTION
The Acumen Hypotension Prediction Index Feature (“the device”) consists of software running
on the Edwards Lifesciences EV1000 Platform (previously cleared under K100709, K110597,
K131892, K140312, and K160552) paired with the FloTrac IQ extravascular blood pressure
transducer (K152980) and a radial arterial catheter. The device includes the Hypotension
Prediction Index (HPI), the Dynamic Arterial Elastance Parameter (Ea ), the Left Ventricular
dyn
Contractility Parameter (dP/dt), and additional graphical user interface features.
HPI is an index related to the likelihood of a patient experiencing a hypotensive event (defined as
mean arterial pressure (MAP) <65 mmHg for one minute in duration) within fifteen minutes,
where zero (0) indicates low likelihood and one hundred (100) indicates high likelihood. The
EV1000 Platform initiates a high priority alarm (red) when HPI exceeds 85. The Hypotension
Prediction Index, HPI, should not be used exclusively to treat the patients. A review of the
patient’s hemodynamics is recommended prior to initiating treatment.
HPI is not defined by a single equation. HPI uses features extracted from FloTrac IQ
measurements, some compared to an initial base value determined over the first 10 minutes of
the patient monitoring session, to a data-driven model developed from retrospective analysis of
an arterial waveform database collected from ICU and OR patients containing annotated
hypotensive (defined as MAP <65 mmHG for at least 1 minute) and non-hypotensive events.
The sensitivity, specificity, and area under the receiver operating characteristic for the first
database of 52 subjects were 83.7%, 99.8%, and 0.95 respectively. The sensitivity, specificity,
and area under the receiver operating characteristic for the second database of 204 subjects were
65.8%, 99.4%, and 0.88 respectively.
The accuracy of the presented measurements are based on several factors: the arterial line is
reliable (not damped), the pressure sensor is well aligned and the arterial line zeroed properly is
connected to the device, and patient demographics (age, gender, height, and weight) have been
entered into the device. Usability testing demonstrated that users recognize that HPI is an
adjunctive parameter.
Ea is a physiologic parameter related to left ventricular afterload relative to the left ventricular
dyn
elastance. It is calculated by dividing Pulse Pressure Variation (PPV) by Stroke Volume
Variation (SVV), or Ea = PPV/SVV.
dyn
dP/dt is a physiologic parameter related to the change in contractility of the left ventricle. It is
calculated as the maximal first derivative of the arterial pressure waveform with respect to time.
Additional graphical user interface features include the HPI High Alert Popup, which displays
when HPI exceeds 85 for two consecutive 20-second updates or reaches 100 at any time, and the
HPI Secondary Screen, which consolidates hemodynamic parameters into a single screen.
De Novo Summary (DEN160044) Page 3 of 14Figure 1: (top, left) HPI displayed as a Key Parameter; (bottom, left) HPI High Alert Popup;
(right) HPI Secondary Screen
SUMMARY OF NONCLINICAL/BENCH STUDIES
ELECTROMAGNETIC COMPATIBILITY AND ELECTRICAL SAFETY
The device is a software feature installed on the EV1000 Platform. The EV1000 Platform
conforms with FDA-recognized standards for basic safety and essential performance of
Medical Electrical Equipment. These standards include:
x IEC 60601-1:2005 + CORR. 1 (2006) + CORR. 2 (2007) with report of US National
Differences - Medical Electrical Equipment, Part 1: General requirements for basic
safety and essential performance
x IEC 60601-1-2:2007 -Medical Electrical Equipment, Part 1-2: General requirements
for safety – Collateral Standard: Electromagnetic compatibility – Requirements and
tests.
x IEC 60601-1-6:2010 -Medical Electrical Equipment, Part 1-6: General requirements
for safety and essential performance – Collateral Standard: Usability.
x IEC 62366:2007 - Medical Devices – Application of usability engineering to medical
devices.
x IEC 60601-1-8:2006 -Medical Electrical Equipment, Part 1-8: General requirements
De Novo Summary (DEN160044) Page 4 of 14for basic safety and essential performance – Collateral Standard: General
requirements, tests, and guidance for alarm systems in medical electrical equipment
and medical electrical systems.
x IEC 60601-2-49:2011 -Medical electrical equipment Part 2-49: Particular
requirements for the basic safety and essential performance of multifunction patient
monitoring equipment
x IEC 60068-2-13:1985 -Basic environmental testing procedures - Part 2-13: Tests -
Test M: Low air pressure
Electromagnetic compatibility information was provided in accordance with the FDA
Guidance Document, “Information to Support a Claim of Electromagnetic Compatibility
(EMC) of Electrically-Powered Medical Devices – Guidance for Industry and Food and
Drug Administration Staff” (issued July 11, 2016).
SOFTWARE
Software documentation was provided in accordance with the FDA Guidance Document,
“Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical
Devices,” (issued May 11, 2005) for a Moderate Level of Concern (LOC). A Moderate
LOC is deemed appropriate as malfunction of the device software or a latent design flaw
in the device software may lead to an erroneous diagnosis or a delay in the delivery of
appropriate medical care, which would likely result in minor injury but would likely not
result in serious injury or death due to the availability of other patient vital signs.
Regression testing was performed to demonstrate that the device software does not
adversely impact the performance of the cleared EV1000 Platform.
Translation testing was performed to demonstrate that movement of the device software
from the development environment to the EV1000 Platform does not adversely impact
the intended performance of the EV1000 Platform.
Algorithm unit testing was performed to demonstrate that the device software meets its
software requirements. This testing was performed using publicly available and privately
collected patient data. Additional details are provided in the “Summary of Clinical
Information” section.
Cybersecurity information was provided in accordance with the FDA Guidance
Document, “Content of Premarket Submissions for Management of Cybersecurity in
Medical Devices – Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff”
(issued October 02, 2014).
USABILITY TESTING
Usability testing was necessary to mitigate the risk of delayed or incorrect treatment due
De Novo Summary (DEN160044) Page 5 of 14to user misinterpretation or overreliance on the indicator. Test reports were provided in
accordance with the FDA Guidance Document, “Applying Human Factors and Usability
Engineering to Medical Devices – Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug
Administration Staff” (issued February 02, 2016). Fifteen (15) clinical participants,
including anesthesiologists, intensivists, Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists
(CRNAs), and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) nurses participated in the testing. Testing was
performed in a simulated use environment using a sequence of tasks, including
monitoring initiation, configuration of the screen, response to high alert, and end of case.
Specifically, users were assessed for the understanding that after a high HPI result, other
physiologic parameters should be considered before taking clinical action. Interview
questions were administered to assess user understanding of the monitor features and the
meaning of a different HPI values. At least 80% of participants met the acceptance
criteria of agree or strongly agree for all items, including when separating subjects by
clinical profession and years of experience.
PERFORMANCE TESTING –ANIMAL
Device performance was evaluated in five swine using a hemorrhagic model and a
vasodilation model. In the hemorrhagic model, swine were bled by venous catheter
insertion at 5-20 cc/min after baseline stabilization was established, then held at a
MAP of 60 mm/hg for 15 minutes. In the vasodilation model, swine at a MAP of 85
mm/hg were slowly administered nitroprusside (NTP) to reduce MAP to less than 65
mm/hg for 15 minutes. Device outputs (HPI, Ea , and dP/dt) were recorded during
dyn
execution of both models. The device outputs were compared to animal status and
proposed Indications for Use.
De Novo Summary (DEN160044) Page 6 of 14SUMMARY OF CLINICAL INFORMATION
Clinical validation of the HPI index used both publicly and privately collected data. Data utilized
in the validation of the HPI Algorithm originated from two databases. The first database, the
Edwards Lifesciences database, has archived data that were all collected via prospective, IRB/EC
approved clinical protocols with informed consent for each patient. This database archive
contains acute care OR patients (N=52) with wide ranges of procedures and with various acute
conditions collected from global clinical sites. The patient data used for validation were all
collected via prospective protocols. The second database came from a university hospital and
included OR patients (n=204). The sensitivity, specificity, and area under the receiver operating
characteristic for the first database were 83.7%, 99.8%, and 0.95 respectively. The sensitivity,
specificity, and area under the receiver operating characteristic for the second database were
65.8%, 99.4%, and 0.88 respectively.
Pediatric Extrapolation
In this De Novo request, existing clinical data were not leveraged to support the use of the device
in a pediatric patient population.
LABELING
The labeling includes the following elements:
a. A description of what the device measures and outputs to the user;
“Acumen Hypotension Prediction Index (HPI) software, when active and when using
a FloTrac IQ sensor, connected to a radial arterial catheter, provides the clinician with
information regarding the likelihood of a patient trending toward a hypotensive vent,
defined as mean arterial pressure (MAP) < 65 mmHg for at least one minute.”
“HPI uses features extracted from FloTrac IQ measurements, some compared to an
initial base value determined over the first 10 minutes of the patient monitoring
session, to a data-driven model developed from retrospective analysis of an arterial
waveform database collected from ICU and OR patients containing annotated
hypotensive (defined as MAP <65 mmHG for at least 1 minute) and non-hypotensive
events. HPI is displayed as an integer value between 0 and 100.”
b. Warnings identifying sensor acquisition factors that may impact measurement results;
De Novo Summary (DEN160044) Page 7 of 14“The accuracy of the presented measurements are based on several factors: the
arterial line is reliable (not damped), the pressure sensor is well aligned and the
arterial line zeroed properly is connected to the device, and patient demographics
(age, gender, height, and weight) have been entered into the device.”
c. Guidance for interpretation of the measurements, including a statement that the
output is adjunctive to other physical vital sign parameters and patient information;
De Novo Summary (DEN160044) Page 8 of 14“The Hypotension Prediction Index, HPI, should not be used exclusively to treat the
patients. A review of the patient’s hemodynamics is recommended prior to initiating
treatment.”
“The Acumen HPI feature is considered to be additional quantitative information
regarding the patient’s physiological condition for reference only and no therapeutic
decisions should be made based solely on the Hypotension Prediction Index (HPI)
parameter.”
d. A specific time or a range of times before the predicted patient status or clinical event
occurs, accounting for differences in patient condition and environment;
“Patient has a high likelihood of experiencing a hypotensive event within 15 minutes”
e. Key assumptions made during calculation of the output;
“The HPI parameter uses data from the first ten minutes of monitoring to establish a
‘base value’. Device performance during these first ten minutes may differ as a
result.”
De Novo Summary (DEN160044) Page 9 of 14f. The type(s) of sensor data used, including specification of compatible sensors for data
acquisition;
“Acumen Hypotension Prediction Index (HPI) software, when active and when using
a FloTrac IQ sensor, connected to a radial arterial catheter, provides the clinician with
information regarding the likelihood of a patient trending toward a hypotensive vent,
defined as mean arterial pressure (MAP) < 65 mmHg for at least one minute.”
g. The expected performance of the device for all intended use populations and
environments; and
“The Acumen HPI feature is intended for use in OR patients receiving advanced
hemodynamic monitoring.”
De Novo Summary (DEN160044) Page 10 of 14h. Relevant characteristics of the patients studied in the clinical validation (e.g., age,
gender, race/ethnicity, patient condition) and a summary of validation results
De Novo Summary (DEN160044) Page 11 of 14RISKS TO HEALTH
The table below identifies the risks to health that may be associated with use of the adjunctive
predictive cardiovascular indicator and the measures necessary to mitigate these risks.
Identified Risk Mitigation Measures
Delayed or incorrect treatment due to Software verification, validation, and
erroneous device output resulting from hazard analysis
software malfunction or algorithm error Non-clinical performance testing
Clinical performance testing
Labeling
Delayed or incorrect treatment due to Usability assessment
user misinterpretation or overreliance on Labeling
indicator
SPECIAL CONTROLS
In combination with the general controls of the FD&C Act, the adjunctive predictive
cardiovascular indicator is subject to the following special controls:
1. A software description and the results of verification and validation testing based on a
comprehensive hazard analysis and risk assessment must be provided, including:
a. A full characterization of the software technical parameters, including algorithms;
b. A description of the expected impact of all applicable sensor acquisition hardware
characteristics and associated hardware specifications;
c. A description of sensor data quality control measures;
d. A description of all mitigations for user error or failure of any subsystem
components (including signal detection, signal analysis, data display, and storage)
on output accuracy;
e. A description of the expected time to patient status or clinical event for all
expected outputs, accounting for differences in patient condition and
environment; and
f. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive
value in both percentage and number form.
2. A scientific justification for the validity of the predictive cardiovascular indicator
algorithm(s) must be provided. This justification must include verification of the
algorithm calculations and validation using an independent data set.
3. A human factors and usability engineering assessment must be provided that evaluates
the risk of misinterpretation of device output.
De Novo Summary (DEN160044) Page 12 of 144. A clinical data assessment must be provided. This assessment must fulfill the following:
a. The assessment must include a summary of the clinical data used, including
source, patient demographics, and any techniques used for annotating and
separating the data.
b. The clinical data must be representative of the intended use population for the
device. Any selection criteria or sample limitations must be fully described and
justified.
c. The assessment must demonstrate output consistency using the expected range of
data sources and data quality encountered in the intended use population and
environment.
d. The assessment must evaluate how the device output correlates with the predicted
event or status.
5. Labeling must include:
a. A description of what the device measures and outputs to the user;
b. Warnings identifying sensor acquisition factors that may impact measurement
results;
c. Guidance for interpretation of the measurements, including a statement that the
output is adjunctive to other physical vital sign parameters and patient
information;
d. A specific time or a range of times before the predicted patient status or clinical
event occurs, accounting for differences in patient condition and environment;
e. Key assumptions made during calculation of the output;
f. The type(s) of sensor data used, including specification of compatible sensors for
data acquisition;
g. The expected performance of the device for all intended use populations and
environments; and
h. Relevant characteristics of the patients studied in the clinical validation (including
age, gender, race or ethnicity, and patient condition) and a summary of validation
results.
BENEFIT/RISK DETERMINATION
The risks of the device are based on nonclinical laboratory and animal studies, as well as
retrospective clinical data as described above. The primary risk would be fluid overload or
subsequent treatment with vasopressor based on a false positive HPI reading when the
anesthesiologist is only relying on that single reading.
The probable benefits of the device are also based on nonclinical laboratory and animal studies,
as well as retrospective clinical data as described above. The primary benefit of the HPI software
is that it provides the physician with a predictive score that the patient may be trending toward a
hypotensive event (defined as Mean Arterial Pressure < 65 mmHg for at least one minute in
duration). For most patients, increased awareness to the increased risk for a hypotensive event
De Novo Summary (DEN160044) Page 13 of 14may help prevent a hemodynamic deterioration by first diagnosing the underlying dysfunction
and then treating it.
Patient Perspectives
This submission did not include specific information on patient perspectives for this device.
Benefit/Risk Conclusion
In conclusion, given the available information summarized above, the data support that for the
intended use specified above, the probable benefits outweigh the probable risks for the Acumen
Hypotension Prediction Index Feature Software. The device provides benefits and the risks can be
mitigated by the use of general controls and the identified special controls.
CONCLUSION
The De Novo request for the Acumen Hypotension Prediction Index Feature Software is granted
and the device is classified under the following:
Product Code: QAQ
Device Type: Adjunctive predictive cardiovascular indicator
Class: II
Regulation: 21 CFR 870.2210
De Novo Summary (DEN160044) Page 14 of 14