DE NOVO CLASSIFICATION REQUEST FOR
MATRx plus
REGULATORY INFORMATION
FDA identifies this generic type of device as:
Auto titration device for oral appliances: An auto-titration device for oral appliances
is a prescription home use device that determines a target position to be used for a final
oral appliance for the reduction of snoring and mild to moderate obstructive sleep apnea.
NEW REGULATION NUMBER: 21 CFR 872.5571
CLASSIFICATION: Class II
PRODUCT CODE: QCJ
BACKGROUND
DEVICE NAME: MATRx plus
SUBMISSION NUMBER: DEN170090
DATE OF DE NOVO: December 21, 2017
CONTACT: Zephyr Sleep Technology
#102, 701 64th Ave SE
Calgary, Alberta Canada
T2H 2C3
INDICATIONS FOR USE
The MATRx plus device may also be used with an automated mandibular positioner that
uses feedback control to record changes in the patient’s respiratory status related to
repositioning of the mandible during an overnight study.
MATRx plus uses these recordings to produce a report for the HCP that can be used to
prospectively identify patients with mild to moderate obstructive sleep apnea who may be
suitable for therapy with an oral appliance and to recommend a target mandibular
position.
The use of the device does not replace the need for follow-up testing to determine the
initial and ongoing effectiveness of the therapy as recommended by clinical practice
guidelines.LIMITATIONS
Prescription use only.
In an Oral Appliance Study mode, the device is not recommended for use in patients
who:
• Have loose teeth or advanced periodontal disease
• Have full dentures or dental implants
This device is not to be used as an apnea monitor or in a life supporting or life sustaining
situation.
Warnings
Patients fitted with an oral appliance after their MATRx plus Study, as prescribed by the
interpreting physician, should be monitored and undergo further sleep testing with their
therapeutic appliance in place to ensure adequate treatment is achieved.
Use of the device during an Oral Appliance Study may cause:
• Temporary bite changes
• Gum or tooth discomfort
• Jaw discomfort
• Jaw joint discomfort
• Increased salivation
• Dry mouth
Use of the MATRx plus may cause disruption in sleep from the use of the sensors and
mandibular positioner.
Inspect the titration trays and tray material carefully prior to each use. Stop the study and
return the system to the provider if:
• The tray material has degraded
• The tray material has come off the Titration Trays during the study. If this
occurs, remove any pieces from the mouth
• The titration trays are uncomfortable due to the tray material
Use of the titration trays is not to exceed 3 nights of sleep (total 24 hours).
PLEASE REFER TO THE LABELING FOR A MORE COMPLETE LIST OF
WARNINGS, PRECAUTIONS AND CONTRAINDICATIONS.
DEVICE DESCRIPTION
This De Novo request is for an expanded indication (new intended use) for use with an
automated mandibular positioner that uses feedback control to record changes in the patient’s
respiratory status related to repositioning of the mandible during an overnight study.
De Novo Summary (DEN170090) Page 2 of 16The device is an automated temporary oral appliance that manipulates the mandible through
multiple protrusion levels during an overnight sleep study in the home. The device uses the
same interface as the MATRx plus Home Sleep Apnea Test, also from Zephyr Sleep
Technologies, cleared under product code MNR, regulation 21 CFR 868.2375, cleared in
K163665. These components include the recorder, tablet, oximeter, effector belt, and nasal
cannula. The MATRx plus device for a titration study includes a mandibular positioner to
determine an optimal titration position based on inputs of airflow and an oxygen desaturation
index (ODI) of less than 10 events per hour. The device analyses the collected information and
generates a report to assist the Healthcare Provider in the clinical management of oral appliance
therapy for patients with mild to moderate obstructive sleep apnea. From this report, patients
may be informed on the future efficaciousness of oral appliance (OA) therapy.
Specifically, the clinical management may be assisted by this type of oral appliance assessment
study by prospectively identifying patients that are expected to achieve therapeutic success with
oral appliance therapy. The oral appliance assessment study also includes the provision of a
recommended target protrusive setting for the mandible through use of a legally marketed
intraoral appliance (regulated under 21 CFR 872.5570, product code LQZ). The target protrusive
setting is the amount of mandibular protrusion where the patient is expected to achieve
efficacious therapy with the intraoral appliance and is used by the HCP to more effectively
complete the titration process.
The use of the MATRx plus device for an oral appliance assessment study does not replace the
clinical titration process or the need for follow-up testing to determine the initial and ongoing
therapy as recommended by clinical practice guidelines.
The MATRx plus test identifies patients as suitable for intraoral therapy if a mandible protrusion
level can be found where the patient has an oxygen desaturation index (ODI) of less than 10
events per hour with a 4% desaturation criterion.
Device Components
The components of the MATRx plus device for use in a titration study, are shown below in
Figure 1:
De Novo Summary (DEN170090) Page 3 of 16Figure 1: MATRx Plus Device Components
to MATlb,~
MAT¾,: plus Mandibular Positioner
g m and Titration Trays
0
!£ £2 .2
•
Tablet Recorder
~ ­
p
..... Oximeter
~ Nasal
Cannula
The MATRx plus comprises the following components that were previously cleared under premarket
notifications (510(k)s):
• Body Worn Recorder (with accelerometer sensor) [510(k) #K163665]
• Tablet computer that runs the MATRx plus Application [510(k) #K163665]
• Study Management and Review Software (Portal and Data Viewer) [510(k) #K163665]
• Nasal Cannula [510(k) #K163665]
• Respiratory Effort Belt [510(k) #K163665]
• Sleep Sense Impendence Belt [510(k) #K042253, not pictured in Figure 1]
• Oximeter Sensors [510(k) #K101896, K051212, K090662]
• Vinyl Polysiloxane 2 Component Vulcanizing System [K930248, not pictured in Figure 1]
• Titration Trays (same material as in K103704)
• Mandibular Positioner (similar to that cleared in K103704)
SUMMARY OF NONCLINICAL/BENCH STUDIES
BIOCOMPATIBILITY/MATERIALS
The MATRx plus Recorder, Tablet, Nasal Cannula, Respiratory Effort Belt and Finger
Oximeter were previously cleared for the use of the MATRx plus device as a sleep
recorder (K163665). There have been no changes to these devices, or their use (type or
duration of contact) as part of this product. Biocompatibility for these components was
demonstrated in 510(k) #K163665.
The MATRx plus Titration Tray and Impression material are of the same material and
contact as the Titration Tray and Impression material for the in-lab version of the device
(MATRx, K103704). Type and duration of contact remain the same (<24 hours).
Biocompatibility for these components was demonstrated in 510(k) #K103704.
De Novo Summary (DEN170090) Page 4 of 16SHELF LIFE/REPROCESSING/STERILITY
The MATRx plus device consists of the following components and accessories: a Tablet, a
body worn Recorder with nylon strap, Nasal Cannula, Finger Oximeter, Effort Belt, a
Mandibular Positioner and disposable Titration Trays. All components except for the
Mandibular Positioner and Titration Trays are the same as were previously cleared for the use
of the device to assist in the diagnosis of sleep disordered breathing in K163655. Cleaning
and disinfection instructions were validated in that submission, and there have been no
changes to these components since to necessitate additional validation.
The Mandibular Positioner is reused between patients, and is similar to the Positioner used
for an OA assessment study in the sleep lab (K103704). It may become contaminated with
body fluids (e.g. patient saliva) because of proximity to the patient, or be subject to
contamination during use from contact with soiled hands of patients or the HCP. It therefore
requires cleaning and low level disinfection between uses. New testing for the mandibular
positioner was provided following the same validation plan as the previous components.
Validated cleaning and disinfection instructions have been provided.
The Titration Trays are single patient use and are to be disposed of following the MATRx
plus test.
ELECTROMAGNETIC COMPATIBILITY, WIRELESS AND ELECTRICAL SAFETY
The MATRx plus was tested in accordance with the following consensus standards and
conformed with IEC 60601-1-2:2014. The device passed the following electromagnetic
compatibility (EMC) safety tests:
Table 1: Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) Safety Tests
Phenomenon Basic EMC Standard Immunity test level
Electrostatic Discharge IEC 61000-4-2 +/-8kV contact, +/-2,4,6,8, 15kV air
Radiated RF EM fields IEC 61000-4-3 10V/m, 80MHz-2.7GHz, 80% AM at 1kHz
Proximity fields from RF wireless IEC 61000-4-3 As per Clause 8.10 of IEC 60601-1-2, see
communications equipment Table 2: Proximity Field Parameters
EFT/Bursts IEC 61000-4-4 +/-2kV, AC mains, +/-1kV, I/O ports
Surges Line-Line IEC 61000-4-5 ± 0.5 kV, ±1 kV
Surges Line-Ground IEC 61000-4-5 ± 0.5 kV, ±1 kV, ±2 kV
Rated power frequency magnetic IEC 61000-4-8 30A/m, 50 and 60Hz
fields
Conducted disturbances induced IEC 61000-4-6 6V in ISM + Amateur bands, 3V (0.15-
by RF fields 80MHz)
Voltage Dips IEC 61000-4-11 0 % UT; 0.5 cycle, @ 0°, 45°, 90°, 135°,
180°, 225°, 270° and 315°
Voltage Interruptions IEC 61000-4-11 Interrupt >95% drop, 5s
Radiated Disturbance FCC 47 CFR Part 15, Subpart B
CISPR 11, Group 1, Class B
Conducted Disturbance CISPR 11, Group 1, Class B
RF Emissions IEC 61000-3-2 Harmonics
IEC 61000-3-3 Flicker
With the exception of FCC 47 CFR Part 15, all the other standards are normative
references of IEC 60601-1-2:2014, Medical electrical equipment – Part 1-2: General
De Novo Summary (DEN170090) Page 5 of 16requirements for basic safety and essential performance – Collateral Standard:
Electromagnetic disturbances – Requirements and tests and conform to IEC 60601-1-
2:2014
The MATRx plus was tested in accordance with IEC 60601-1:2005 (Third Edition) +
CORR. 1:2006 +CORR. 2:2007 + A1:2012 and passed the following wireless safety and
radio frequency wireless coexistence safety tests:
Table 2: Wireless Safety and Radio Frequency Wireless Coexistence Safety Tests
Basic EMC Standard Test Name
ETSI EN 300 328 v1.8.1 Wireless Safety Test Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio
spectrum Matters (ERM)
ETSI EN 300 328 v1.8.1 Wireless Safety Test Wideband transmission systems
ETSI EN 300 328 v1.8.1 Wireless Safety Test Data transmission equipment operating in
the 2,4 GHz ISM band and using wide band
modulation techniques
ETSI EN 300 328 v1.8.1 Wireless Safety Test Harmonized ENcovering the essential
requirements of article 3.2 of the R&TTE
Directive
ETSI EN 301 489-1 v1.9.2 Wireless Safety Test Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio
spectrum Matters (ERM)
ETSI EN 301 489-1 v1.9.2 Wireless Safety Test ElectroMagnetic Compatibility (EMC)
standard for radio equipment and services;
Part 1: Common technical requirements
ETSI EN 301 489-17 v2.2.1 Wireless Safety Test Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio
spectrum Matters (ERM)
ETSI EN 301 489-1 v1.9.2 Wireless Safety Test ElectroMagnetic Compatibility (EMC)
standard for radio equipment Part 17:
Specific conditions for Broadband Data
Transmission Systems
AAMI TIR69:2017 Radio frequency wireless Risk management of radio-frequency
coexistence safety test wireless coexistence for medical devices
and systems
MAGNETIC RESONANCE (MR) COMPATIBILITY
The device has not been tested for MRI compatibility and should not be used in the
vicinity of an MRI device.
SOFTWARE
The De Novo request provided adequate software documentation consistent with a
“Moderate” level of software concern as discussed in the FDA Guidance Document
“Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical
Devices,” issued May 11, 2005.
Software validation and verification testing demonstrated that the device met its design,
implementation, and cybersecurity requirements.
HUMAN FACTORS
A human factors assessment was conducted as part of the clinical trial for the MATRx
De Novo Summary (DEN170090) Page 6 of 16plus device. Please refer to the ‘Summary of Clinical Information’ below.
PERFORMANCE TESTING – CLOSED LOOP ALGORITHM
The MATRx plus device is considered a Physiological Closed-Loop Controlled (PCLC)
medical device. The sponsor has provided a conformity report to the following
consensus standard:
IEC 60601-1-10 The General requirements for basic safety and essential performance –
Collateral Standard: Requirements for the development of physiologic closed-loop
controllers.
The sponsor has adequately addressed the following elements in the closed-loop system :
• Control scheme and method
• Rationale for choice of controller
• Control parameters (e.g., Proportional and Integral (PI) gains)
• Control variables (e.g., infusion rate)
• Controller robustness (i.e., against patient variability).
• Controller stability
• Details of signal processing that enable the feedback system and how different
sensors (e.g. oximeter and flow sensor) are combined to inform the positioner
controller
• Sensor accuracy variability and potential detrimental effects on the positioner
• Reliability of the sensor in situations that may pose disturbance to the reading
(e.g., patient movement)
PERFORMANCE TESTING – BENCH
The following testing was reviewed as a part of the bench performance testing:
Table 3: Bench Performance Testing
Test Test Objectives
Mandibular (i) Device will be able to send a position feedback signal to the
Positioner, controller that reports a new position within 0.5mm of the
Accuracy Data actual physical position of the trays/mandible; and the accuracy
will be maintained under expected clinical loads.
(ii) The mandibular positioner will be able to physically endure
the use life of the device under normal operating load without
failure and maintain the accuracy. Simulated use life testing
was conducted based on days of single patient use, movements
per patient use, and approximated number of insertion and
removal cycles per patient use. This number was extrapolated
for the final use life determination, and testing was conducted
at this value.
De Novo Summary (DEN170090) Page 7 of 16Mandibular Mandibular positioner will be incapable of applying a force that
Positioner, Force could induce serious injury under a worst-case fault scenario of
Limit Test 70 Newtons as reported in the literature. This is a force that the
average patient should be able to voluntarily counteract by
resisting anterior/posterior motion or clenching. The literature
supported forces in a range of 150N or more, therefore, a
conservative acceptance criteria has been established.
Device Force (i) Demonstrate the ability of users to voluntarily stall the
Limitation mandibular positioner in a fault position (i.e., full stroke speed)
Simulation (ii) Demonstrate that without voluntary action to resist the
force, the trays dislodge from their seated position on the teeth
prior to injury or maximum force (i.e., 70N)
Impression (i) Demonstrate the ability of the impression material used to
material form the temporary oral appliance to maintain integrity over the
breakage use life of the temporary oral appliance
The data provided showed each test was passed according to its pre-specified acceptance
criteria.
SUMMARY OF CLINICAL INFORMATION
Objective
To evaluate the ability the MATRx plus to safely and effectively identify which patients with
obstructive sleep apnea are expected to achieve therapeutic success with oral appliance therapy
and to recommend an efficacious target mandibular position at which intraoral therapy may be
effective.
Study Design
The clinical study was completed in two phases. Phase I used a prototype of the device and
established proof of concept ahead of Phase II. This review focuses on Phase II, as it is pivotal,
uses the final finished device, and includes a human factors assessment. The device was used as
intended, unattended in the home environment following deployment from a dental
professional’s office.
Human Factors
Human factors verification and validation testing was also evaluated as part of the pivotal
clinical trial. The study provided a human factors assessment as per the FDA Guidance
Document “Applying Human Factors and Usability Engineering to Medical Devices” issued
February 3, 2016.
As per the guidance, 15 patients were recruited for each study which were conducted in a
bedroom environment. Each patient had been previously diagnosed with OSA. Participants and
providers were evaluated for comprehension-based tasks.
The human factors evaluation included the following:
• Simulated device set-up of the portal and tablet – device set up, tray fabrication, patient
self-insertion of trays, and reprocessing
De Novo Summary (DEN170090) Page 8 of 16• Actual use testing- actual patient overnight use, technician reading and understanding the
report
Clinical Endpoints
Effectiveness
1. Predictive Accuracy
Successful treatment with an oral appliance was defined prospectively as achieving an
oxygen desaturation index (ODI) with the custom appliance, by the automated analysis of
a full night home sleep test, of less than 10 desaturation events per hour. Unsuccessful
treatment with an oral appliance was defined as achieving an ODI on the home sleep test
greater than or equal to 10 desaturation events per hour.
• The MATRx plus predictive accuracy endpoint was assigned if the sensitivity and
specificity was found to be statistically significant to reject the null
hypothesis that sensitivity was ≤0.6
• A secondary outcome was assigned if the MATRx plus target protrusive position
was found to be statistically significant to reject the null hypothesis that target
accuracy was ≤0.6
2. Safety
The pivotal study success criteria are as follows:
• No significant safety concerns reported by the coordinator, dentist, or participant.
• Only minor discomfort reported on the MATRx plus post-study device participant
questionnaires.
• No failure of the software that resulted or could result in injury to the participant
if it were to recur.
• No movement beyond full retrusion and maximum protrusion set values.
3. Usability
• The MATRx plus usability endpoint was assigned if usability testing of the device
produced an accurate prediction for oral appliance therapy and effective titration
level as demonstrated by actual use testing relating to the set-up, placement, use,
and removal of the device by the participant in the home environment
Statistical Methodology
The predictive accuracy endpoint for the study was determined by calculating the sensitivity and
specificity of the predictions made from the MATRx plus test, where 95% confidence intervals
were obtained using 1-sided binomial calculations, which were sufficient to reject the null
hypothesis that sensitivity was ≤0.6. A secondary predictive accuracy outcome was assigned if
the MATRx plus target protrusive position was found to be statistically significant, where 95%
confidence intervals were obtained using 1-sided binomial test calculations, which were
sufficient to reject the null hypothesis that target accuracy was ≤0.6.
De Novo Summary (DEN170090) Page 9 of 16Participant Selection
Individuals previously diagnosed with or treated for OSA were recruited for the study. Only the
mild to moderate population was used in the final evaluation. The gender distribution, age, and
BMI of the study population was representative of the general population of individuals with
obstructive sleep apnea.
Inclusion Criteria
1) Aged between 21 and 80 years
2) Obstructive sleep apnea (only mild to moderate OSA patients’ data were used)
3) Oxygen Desaturation Index > 10 hr-1
4) Body mass index less than 45 kg/m2
5) Neck circumference less than 50 cm
6) Absence of severe oxyhemoglobin desaturation during sleep as indicated by a mean SaO2
value greater than 87%
7) Mandibular range of motion greater than 5 mm
8) Adequate dentition (10 upper and 10 lower teeth)
9) Ability to understand and provide informed consent
10) Ability and willingness to meet the required schedule
Exclusion Criteria
1) Inability to breathe comfortably through the nose
3) Anticipated change in medical therapy that could alter the severity of OSA during the protocol
4) Anticipated change in body weight (5% or more) during the protocol
5) Symptomatic, non-respiratory sleep disorder, e.g., restless leg syndrome or chronic insomnia
6) Severe respiratory disorder(s) other than sleep disordered breathing
7) Loose teeth or advanced periodontal disease
8) Participation in other studies that could interfere with study protocol
9) Pregnant or nursing (added in phase II)
10) Heart failure (added in phase II)
11) Cerebral vascular incident within the last 12 months (added in phase II)
12) Use of pacemaker or other life supporting device (added in phase II)
Study Procedure
Each participant received a two-night baseline, pretreatment, respiratory evaluation in the home
using a legally marketed home sleep recorder set to measure 4% oxygen desaturations (Phase I:
Snore SAT, K002159; Phase II: MATRx plus, K163665) to determine the presence and severity
of obstructive sleep apnea. The baseline study with the Home Sleep Apnea Test was used, in
part, to determine eligibility for the MATRx plus study. All baseline data were reviewed by a
Sleep Health professional.
Each participant was then evaluated by the dental co-investigator for adequate dentition and
other dental criteria. Participants were fitted with upper and lower Titration Trays filled with
impression material. The dentist measured the maximum retrusion, normal bite, and protrusion
values from the scale on the MATRx plus titration trays. On the first night of the home MATRx
plus oral appliance assessment study, the values provided by the dentist for normal bite,
De Novo Summary (DEN170090) Page 10 of 16retrusion, and protrusion were entered into the software by a technician and used to control the
limits of protrusion.
The participants then performed the MATRx plus OA assessment study over a two- or three-
night sequence in their own home with no attendant present. At bedtime, the participant
independently applied the nares cannula and the finger oximeter, inserted the trays into the
mouth and initiated the study. This included establishing the Bluetooth pairing and connecting
the sensors to the device, and wearing a respiratory effort belt. The participant then fell asleep
and the device adjusted the position of the mandible in response to changes in detected airflow
and oximetry according to the device’s control algorithms. The following morning, the
participant removed the titration trays and other sensors and terminated the program. The night’s
data were used by the system to determine the parameters for the subsequent night’s settings, for
a total of up to six nights.
If any of the study nights were incomplete (i.e., less than 4 hours of usable data) the incomplete
study night was repeated if the participant was willing. Post-study, the data were reviewed to
verify that the device was set up and used properly. Following each study night, the participant
completed a safety-related questionnaire in which additional factors relating to the safety (e.g.,
ease of applying and removing the trays, pain and discomfort, oral obstruction, tray retention,
ability to understand alerts, etc.) was recorded. At the end of the complete study, the participant
completed additional questions related to the use of the device (e.g., ease of ending the study,
difficulty in positioning trays, overall opinion of the device, ability to understand notifications
and instructions, etc.). A coordinator interviewed the participants on the results of
the questionnaire. A licensed dentist completed an intraoral exam to inspect for any adverse
events. The exam was performed within five days of the study and a separate subjective
interview was conducted to gather additional information by the dentist related to dental safety,
ease of use, comfort and adverse events.
After the completion of the MATRx plus study, the data were automatically analyzed, and the
participants labeled as either: 1) predicted success (responder); or 2) predicted failure (non-
responder). If insufficient data on which to base a prediction were attained, i.e., less than four
hours of sleep on a study night on the required nights, the participant was labeled inconclusive.
The predication was done using a trained binary classifier. The test also provided a predictive
target protrusive position for participants labeled as predicted responders Once the target
protrusive value was obtained, the protrusion level was transferred to the patient’s final oral
appliance and was tested as per the sponsor’s success criteria with the MATRx Home Sleep
Apnea test, which has been validated for using the Oxygen Desaturation Index (ODI).
A successful MATRx plus study was defined as an ODI of less than 10, where ODI is measured
as the number of oxygen desaturation events of 4% or greater per hour. If the success criteria
were not achieved at the target position, the participant’s oral appliance was advanced, and the
participant was retested at 1 mm increments from target until the participant was found to be a
therapeutic success (ODI < 10) or a clinical protrusive limit was reached.
Results
De Novo Summary (DEN170090) Page 11 of 16Identification of Responders
When considering the mild and moderate sleep apnea population, the sensitivity and Positive
Predictive Value (PPV), i.e., the ability of the test to accurately select favorable candidates for
oral appliance therapy, and the results of the prediction of oral appliance responders are provided
in the table below. Though the specificity and Negative Predictive Value (NPV)were low, the
predictive success rate was high (87%). The validity of the test in this population was confirmed
by the PPV (i.e., the sensitivity is not attained by incorrectly assigning a prediction of responder
to all or a majority of candidates). The overall success rate for the identification of responders
was 86.7%.
Table 4: Association Between the MATRx Plus Test Predication and Outcome of Oral
Appliance at Final Protrusion for Individuals with Mild to Moderate Severity Obstructive
Sleep Apnea.
Predictive Success Category Predictive Failure Category
Successful Identification of 49 3
Responders
Failure to Identify 2 6
Responders
Table 5: Measure of Accuracy Between the MATRx plus Test Predication and Oral
Appliance Outcome at Final Protrusion for Individuals with Mild/Moderate Obstructive
Sleep Apnea
% Lower Confidence Upper Confidence
Limit Limit
Sensitivity 94.2 0.86 1.00
Specificity 75.0 0.40 1.00
Positive Predictive 96.1 0.88 1.00
Value
Negative Predictive 66.7 0.34 1.00
Value
Identification of Efficacious Target Protrusion
86.3% of participants were correctly predicted as responders and were successfully provided
with an effective target protrusion. Of the remaining participants, 10.0% required an additional
adjustment by a titration protocol and 3.9% were determined to be false positives through
clinical follow-up.
Of the participants who required additional protrusion, the amount of additional protrusion
required ranged from 1 to 4 mm (11.5-33.3% of the patient’s maximum protrusion). The median
target protrusion provided by the MATRx plus was 66.7% of the patient’s maximum protrusion
and the median effective protrusion (once titration was completed with the custom oral
appliance) was 66.7% of the patient’s maximum protrusion.
De Novo Summary (DEN170090) Page 12 of 16Safety
The MATRx plus study had no significant safety concerns reported by the coordinator, dentist,
or participant. Many of the concerns that were reported were due to patient discomfort and
disruptions in sleep. The safety criteria were assessed as follows:
• Temporary discomfort was reported on the MATRx plus post-study device
participant questionnaires. Patients reported feeling pain in teeth, joint, and jaw
and minor gum irritations, but the pain resolved within a few hours after the
device was removed.
• Temporary discomfort was reported on the MATRx plus post-study dental
assessment. Patients reported a temporary change in bite and soreness in teeth
• No failure of the software was reported that resulted or could result in injury to
the participant if it were to recur.
• No movement beyond full retrusion and maximum protrusion set values were
reported.
Pediatric Extrapolation
In this De Novo request, existing clinical data were not leveraged to support the use of the device
in a pediatric patient population.
LABELING
The labeling (User Instructions) meets the requirements of 21 CFR Part 801.109 for prescription
devices.
The Healthcare Provider Manual instructions for use includes the following:
a. The titration study workflow
b. The User Profile is described as the following:
◦ As healthcare providers who will be responsible for dispensing the device,
instructing the patient, assessing suitability, and prescribing treatment
◦ As patients who will be using the prescription home use device for a home
sleep study
c. Complete instructions on device components, set-up, dispensing, use instructions,
cleaning, disinfection, and storage
d. A description of error messages and alarms
e. Instructions on when to discontinue study
f. Warnings and contraindications
g. Instructions on reviewing patient data and study reports
The Patient Manual instructions for use includes the following:
a. Complete instructions on device components, set-up, use instructions,
cleaning, and storage
b. A description of error messages and alarms
c. Instructions on when to discontinue study
De Novo Summary (DEN170090) Page 13 of 16d. Warnings and contraindications
RISKS TO HEALTH
The table below identifies the risks to health that may be associated with use of the auto titration
device for oral appliances and the measures necessary to mitigate these risks.
Table 6: Identified Risks to Health and Mitigation Measures
Identified Risk Mitigation Measures
Adverse tissue reaction Biocompatibility evaluation
Infection Reprocessing validation
Labeling
Intraoral/TMJ injury, irritation or Clinical performance testing
pain due to: Human factors assessment
 Use error Non-clinical performance testing
 Algorithm-directed Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis
positioning Electrical safety testing
 Interference with other Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) testing
devices Wireless coexistence testing
 Device electrical failure
Incorrect titration level due to use Human factors assessment
error Labeling
Disruption of sleep Labeling
Temporary change in bite or Labeling
dentition
SPECIAL CONTROLS:
In combination with the general controls of the FD&C Act, the auto titration device for oral
appliances is subject to the following special controls:
(1) Clinical performance testing must evaluate the following:
(i) Performance characteristics of the algorithm; and
(ii) All adverse events.
(2) Non-clinical performance testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended
under anticipated conditions for use, including the following:
(i) Validation of the closed loop algorithm;
(ii) Mechanical integrity over the expected use life;
(iii) Characterization of maximum force, distance, and speed of device movement; and
(iv) Movement accuracy of intraoral components.
(3) Performance testing must demonstrate the wireless compatibility, electrical safety,
and electromagnetic compatibility of the device in its intended use environment.
(4) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.
De Novo Summary (DEN170090) Page 14 of 16(5) The patient-contacting components of the device must be demonstrated to be
biocompatible.
(6) Performance data must validate the reprocessing instructions for any reusable
components.
(7) Patient labeling must include:
(i) Information on device use, including placement of sensors and mouthpieces;
(ii) A description of all alarms; and
(iii) Instructions for reprocessing any reusable components.
(8) A human factors assessment must evaluate simulated use of the device in a home use
setting.
BENEFIT/RISK DETERMINATION
The known probable risks of the device are based on the data collected in the clinical study
described above. The device exhibited an acceptable safety profile in the clinical studies which
were conducted, and any adverse events that occurred were temporary and had complete
resolution. No device-related serious adverse events were observed, such as swallowing or
aspiration of device components, obstruction of oral breathing, or permanent changes in
dentition.
As described above, the MATRx plus device consists of a closed loop auto-titration device to be
used with a temporary oral appliance to provide information to the healthcare professional
regarding a patient’s response to oral appliance therapy and a predicted effective titration level
for the final oral appliance. Several of the components have been previously used in Zephyr’s
home sleep apnea test (HSAT). The HSAT device was cleared under K163665, and is regulated
as a Breathing Frequency Monitor under 21 CFR 868.2375. The device is to be prescribed and
dispensed by a healthcare professional and to be used in a home-use setting. Risks of a harmful
event would be related to improper use or device malfunction that may cause tooth, jaw, and
joint discomfort, sleep disruption, increased salivation, or tooth movement. All of these risks
were seen in the clinical study with the use of the device except for tooth movement, although
tooth movement is a common side effect of intraoral devices, even for short durations. The
probability of a harmful event with the use of this device is low and any adverse events reported
would likely be temporary in nature. If patients cannot tolerate the MATRx plus device, they
may simply remove it from their mouth and opt for traditional manual titration using the final
oral appliance.
The probable benefits of the device are also based on the data collected in the clinical study
described above. The benefit of this device is that it may be used as a tool for the dentists or
medical sleep specialists to identify OSA patients who may respond to intraoral appliances. It
may also provide a mandible protrusion starting point for the titration process for the final oral
appliance. The numerical titration value provided by the device could be used as a starting point
to determine an efficacious protrusive position for the patient and then be adjusted accordingly
based on clinical expertise of the dentist.
De Novo Summary (DEN170090) Page 15 of 16Patient Perspectives
The MATRx plus study collected data on patients diagnosed with mild to moderate obstructive
sleep apnea based on the inputs of airflow and oxygen desaturation. The collected data was
provided to the healthcare professional and predicted whether the patient may be a responder to
oral appliance therapy and if so, to provide a target protrusive level from which to start the
titration process in the final oral appliance. The conducted study demonstrated that some
patients reported sleep disruptions from use of this device. Sleep disruptions arose from multiple
alarms sounding throughout the night, motion of the mandibular positioner trays, noise form the
mandibular positioner movement, and general discomfort from wearing the device during sleep.
However, sleep disruptions are also common with other devices that use sensors placed on the
body overnight while patients are sleeping, such as home sleep apnea tests.
Benefit/Risk Conclusion
In conclusion, given the available information above, the data provide support for identifying
whether a patient is a candidate for oral appliance therapy and if so, a possible mandible protrusion
position to start the titration process. The data demonstrate that the probable benefits outweigh the
probable risks for MATRx plus. The risks can be mitigated by the use of general controls and the
identified special controls.
CONCLUSION
The De Novo request for the MATRx plus is granted and the device is classified under the
following:
Product Code: QCJ
Device Type: Auto titration device for oral appliances
Class: II
Regulation: 21 CFR 872.5571
De Novo Summary (DEN170090) Page 16 of 16