EVALUATION OF AUTOMATIC CLASS III DESIGNATION FOR
OSTEODETECT
DECISION SUMMARY
A. De Novo Number:
DEN180005
B. Purpose for Submission:
De novo request for evaluation of automatic class III designation for Imagen Technologies,
OsteoDetect
C. Applicant:
Imagen Technologies
D. Proprietary and Established Names:
OsteoDetect
E. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 892.2090
2. Classification:
Class II Special Controls
3 Product code:
QBS
4. Panel:
90 (Radiology)
F. Indications for Use:
1. Indications for Use:
OsteoDetect analyzes wrist radiographs using machine learning techniques to identify
1and highlight distal radius fractures during the review of posterior-anterior (PA) and
lateral (LAT) radiographs of adult wrists.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
For prescription use only
3. Warnings, precautions, and limitations:
Clinicians should review OsteoDetect annotated images concurrently with original
images before making a final determination on a case. OsteoDetect is an adjunct tool and
does not replace the role of the clinician. Clinicians must not use the CAD generated
output as the primary interpretation.
OsteoDetect is not designed to detect fractures other than distal radius fractures.
Clinicians should review original images for all suspected pathologies.
OsteoDetect may not detect a distal radius fracture in both the PA and LAT views.
Clinicians should follow standard clinical procedures in assessing PA and LAT views.
All images must have proper DICOM tags. OsteoDetect performance may be reduced on
images that do not have correct DICOM tags.
G. Device Description:
OsteoDetect is a software device designed to assist clinicians in detecting distal radius
fractures during the review of posterior-anterior (PA) and lateral (LAT) radiographs of adult
wrists. The software uses deep learning techniques to analyze wrist radiographs (PA and
LAT views) for distal radius fracture in adult patients.
Intended User Population:
The intended users of OsteoDetect are clinicians in various settings including primary care
(e.g., family practice, internal medicine), emergency medicine, urgent care, and specialty
care (e.g., orthopedics), as well as radiologists who review radiographs across settings.
When a clinician accesses the patient radiographs in a picture archiving and communication
system (PACS) client, both the OsteoDetect annotated radiographs and the original, unaltered
radiographs are available in the same patient study, allowing for concurrent reading.
OsteoDetect is an adjunct tool and is not intended to replace a clinician's review of the
radiograph or his or her clinical judgment. Clinicians must not use the CAD generated output
as the primary interpretation.
Intended Patient Population:
2The target population of the device is adults (patients age 22 and older) suspected of having a
distal radius fracture.
Compatible Radiological Data Sources:
The radiological data used as input for OsteoDetect are PA and LAT wrist radiographs
acquired with Philips Medical Systems DigitalDiagnost, Carestream Health DRX-1, and GE
Discovery XR656.
Hardware Requirements:
OsteoDetect requires a dedicated physical machine with the following minimum
specifications:
• Intel Xeon E3-1225 v5 or comparable (with at least 2 CPU cores)
• 16GB RAM or more
• 100 GB or more free space
• 100 Mbps or faster Ethernet interface to your institution’s DICOM network
It is strongly recommended that the machine is certified compatible with ESXi.
Software Requirements:
OsteoDetect should be installed on top of the vSphere Hypervisor, ESXi 6.0 Update 2.
1. Description of user interface and outputs
The end user interacts with the output of OsteoDetect in the facility’s PACS software.
Annotated DICOM images processed by OsteoDetect are to be read concurrently by the
clinician along with the original, unannotated radiographs.
If a distal radius fracture is detected by OsteoDetect, the software annotates the image by
creating a bounding box surrounding the fracture with the label “Distal Radius Fracture:
DETECTED.” If none is detected, the message label “Distal Radius Fracture: NOT
DETECTED” appears. Whether or not the software detects a distal radius fracture, when
OsteoDetect analyzes an image it annotates the radiograph to include a message stating
that the radiograph was analyzed by OsteoDetect, and includes instructions for users to
access device labeling.
The annotated radiographs are available in the same patient study as the unaltered
radiographs, allowing for a concurrent read. The OsteoDetect device is not intended to be
used as a primary read for the diagnosis of distal radius fractures; annotated images
should always be read concurrently with the original, unannotated radiographs according
3to standard of practice.
The images above are an example of the OsteoDetect annotated images after a wrist
radiograph is analyzed by the algorithm (left when no fracture is detected, and right when
a fracture is detected and a bounding box is generated on the image).
2. Technological Characteristics and Software Algorithm Summary
OsteoDetect is a software-only device which operates in three layers - a Network Layer, a
Presentation Layer, and a Decision Layer (as described in the data flow diagram below):
4Workflow of the device begins and ends at the Network layer. The Network Input
component accepts Computed Radiography and Digital Radiography (CR and DR)
DICOM images and passes them to the Input DICOM File Processing & Filtering.
Upon receiving a DICOM object, the Input DICOM File Processing & Filtering
component applies a number of filtering rules based on image characteristics and DICOM
tags (age, modality, anatomy, contrast) to ensure that only eligible images are analyzed
by the algorithm.
The Image Processing & Fracture Detection (Machine Learning System) processes
eligible DICOM objects and analyses for the presence or absence of distal radius
fractures. It is comprised of three modules:
 Image Preprocessor module – the image undergoes image preprocessing.
 Fracture Detector module – this module analyzes the processed image and
generates two outputs: a confidence score (confidence for presence of distal
radius fracture), and a conditional probability map encoding the location of the
fracture (if present).
 Image Postprocessor module – determines whether a fracture is present based on
the value of the confidence score and (if present) generates the coordinates of the
fracture bounding box.
The Output DICOM File Processing component creates a DICOM image containing the
original radiograph with a fracture determination, a message stating that the image was
analyzed by OsteoDetect (with link to instructions/labeling), and a bounding box
containing the suspected fracture (if detected).
5The DICOM Network Output sends the OsteoDetect-annotated DICOM images back to
the DICOM Storage Server.
H. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced
The following device-specific FDA guidance documents are relevant to OsteoDetect and
were followed in the preparation of this submission:
 Computer-Assisted Detection Devices Applied to Radiology Images and Radiology
Device Data – Premarket Notification [510(k)] Submissions” (July 3, 2012)
 “Clinical Performance Assessment: Considerations for Computer-Assisted Detection
Devices Applied to Radiology Images and Radiology Device Data – Premarket
Approval (PMA) and Premarket Notification [510(k)] Submissions” (July 3, 2012)
I. Performance Characteristics:
The device is a software-only device. Some common performance characteristics for other
device types are included below with a note that these characteristics are not applicable to
this type of software-only device.
1. Biocompatibility/Materials
Not applicable
2. Shelf Life/Sterility
Not applicable
3. Electromagnetic Compatibility and Electrical Safety
Not applicable
4. Magnetic Resonance (MR) Compatibility
Not applicable
Nonclinical performance data were provided to address the following areas:
5. Software
The device is a software only device.
Imagen Technologies provided software documentation at a Moderate Level of Concern
according to the “Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software
Contained in Medical Devices” (May 11, 2005).
6Version: OsteoDetect 1.0
Level of Concern: Moderate
Software Description: Imagen provided a general description of the features in the
software documentation and in the device description. The description of the software
is consistent with the device functionality described in the device description.
Device Hazard Analysis: Imagen provided separate analyses of the device and
cybersecurity concerns. The content of the hazard analysis is sufficient and assesses
pre- and post- mitigation risks. The device hazard analysis includes:
 identification of the hazardous event
 severity of the hazard
 probability of the hazard
 cause(s) of the hazard
 method of control or mitigation
 corrective measures taken, including an explanation of the aspects of the
device design/requirements, that eliminate, reduce, or warn of a hazardous
event
 verification of the control implementation, which is traceable through the
enumerated traceability matrix
Software Requirement Specifications (SRS): The SRS includes user, engineering,
algorithmic, cybersecurity, and various other types of requirements that give a full
description of the functionality of the device. The SRS is consistent with the device
description and software description.
Architecture Design Chart: The architecture design chart provides the software
overview and includes flow diagrams representative of process flow for various
features of the OsteoDetect software.
Software Design Specification (SDS): The SDS is traceable to the SRS and
demonstrates how individual requirements are implemented in the software design and
includes appropriate linkages to predefined verification testing.
Traceability Analysis/Matrix: Imagen provided traceability between all documents
including the SRS, SDS, and subsequent verification and validation. Hazards
mitigations are traceable throughout all documents.
Software Development Environment: Imagen outlined the software development
environment and the processes/procedures used for medical device software
development. The content is consistent with expected quality system norms.
Verification and Validation Testing: The validation and system level verifications
procedures are based upon the requirements with clearly defined test procedures and
pass/fail criteria. All tests passed. Unit level test procedures, actual, and expected
results are included for all design specifications.
Revision Level History: This is the initial version 1.0 for the device. This is the
version described in the standalone and reader performance testing reports.
Unresolved Anomalies: Imagen stated that there are no unresolved anomalies.
Cybersecurity: The cybersecurity documentation is consistent with the
recommendations for information that should be included in premarket submissions
outlined in the FDA guidance document “Content of Premarket Submissions for
7Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Guidance for Industry and Food
and Drug Administration Staff” (issued October 2, 2014). Information related to
cybersecurity reviewed included: Hazard analysis related to cybersecurity risks;
traceability documentation linking cybersecurity controls to risks considered;
summary plan for validating software updates and patches throughout the lifecycle of
the medical device; summary describing controls in place to ensure that the medical
device will maintain its integrity; and device instructions for use and product
specifications related to recommended cybersecurity controls appropriate for the
intended use of the device.
6. Standalone Performance Testing Protocols and Results
Imagen designed and executed a standalone performance assessment to evaluate
OsteoDetect under a variety of conditions, characterizing the following parameters:
 Fracture detection accuracy;
 Localization accuracy; and
 Generalizability across potential confounders pertaining to image acquisition and
image attributes.
a. Data Characteristics
The study data population is an independent dataset not used for model development,
consisting of 1000 images (500 PA, 500 LAT) which were randomly sampled from an
existing validation database of consecutively collected images from patients receiving
wrist radiographs at the (b) (4) from November 1, 2016 to April 30,
2017. The study population included 35.0% males, 65.0% females, and 6.1% individuals
over age 80. 33.4% of cases were post-surgical radiographs.
Study data were acquired with the following compatible X-ray imaging devices:
Carestream Health DRX-1 (48.2%), GE Discovery XR656 (24.8%), and Philips Medical
Systems DigitalDiagnost (27.0%).
Inclusion Criteria:
 De-identified radiograph
 PA or LAT wrist view
 Adult patient, minimum of 22 years of age
 Image acquired by one of these devices: Philips Medical System DigitalDiagnost,
Carestream Health DRX-1, GE Discovery XR656
Exclusion Criteria:
 Images used during model development
 Same image exclusion criteria of the final finished software in clinical use
8Additional image selection criteria:
 At least 30 images from each supported device to be included in the testing image
set
b. Test Protocol
A pre-production release candidate of OsteoDetect with finalized models and Core Image
Processing code was set up and run in a production-like environment. Standalone
performance testing was assessed on an independent dataset not used for OsteoDetect
model development. Individuals involved with model development were not involved in
the study execution or analysis.
Ground truth for each case was determined by three US board certified orthopedic hand
surgeons who independently interpreted images using the standard clinical definition of a
distal radius fracture. Ground truth for the presence/absence of distal radius fracture is
defined as the majority opinion of at least 2 of the 3 clinicians participating in the truthing
process.
To determine localization accuracy, each clinician both determines whether a distal
radius fracture is present and, if so, draws a bounding box of minimal size to enclose the
entire fracture. The fracture localization ground truth is then defined as the union of the
bounding box of each clinician identifying the fracture (“ground truth bounding box”).
Training of the reviewing clinicians was performed by a member of the Clinical Team
before the truthing process, and included reviewing the Ground Truth Labeling process
which instructs the user to “draw the smallest possible box that encloses the entire
pathology.”
Scoring and Statistical Analysis:
Each image analyzed by OsteoDetect is grouped into one of four categories:
 False Positive: The model produces an output bounding box, and either it does not
overlap with the ground truth bounding box (Type A) or the ground truth bounding
box is empty (Type B). Note that Type A is considered by the sponsor as both a
location-specific False Positive (bounding box does not contain a fracture) and as a
non-location specific True Positive (OsteoDetect accurately reports presence of a
fracture).
 False Negative: The model does not produce a bounding box, and the ground truth
bounding box is not empty.
 True Positive: The model produces a bounding box with overlaps with the ground
truth bounding box. Overlapping is defined by at least one pixel of overlap.
 True Negative: The model does not produce a bounding box, and the ground truth
bounding box is empty.
c. Endpoints
9 Detection Accuracy Evaluation: The primary endpoint of the standalone study is
to characterize the detection accuracy of OsteoDetect for detecting distal radius
fractures in wrist radiographs of adult patients. Detection accuracy was evaluated
through the Area Under the Curve (AUC) of the Receiver Operating
Characteristic curve (ROC) and agreement (sensitivity, specificity, positive
predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV), as appropriate). The
AUC of the ROC was estimated using scores from the Wilcoxon rank-sum test
(PROC NPAR1WAY as implemented in SAS (SASR version 9.4)). The
relationship between the AUC and the Wilcoxon rank-sum test statistics is:
AUC = (W-W )/(N *N )+0.5
0 1 0
where N and N are the frequencies of class 1 and 0 (fracture present/fracture
1 0
absent, respectively) and W0 is the Expected Sum of Ranks under a null
hypothesis of randomly ordered data, and W is the Wilcoxon rank-sums.
Bootstrap re-sampling was employed to estimate both the 90% and 95%
confidence intervals for the AUC (1,000 bootstrap samples).
Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value are
reported at OsteoDetect’s predetermined single operating point. This operating
point was set at the level estimated to yield a 95% sensitivity on a randomly
withheld subset of the model’s training data. Both 90% and 95% confidence
intervals were calculated using Wilson's method (when appropriate) or generated
using bootstrap re-sampling.
 Localization Accuracy: Localization accuracy testing measures the average
distance between the centroid of the ground truth bounding box to the centroid of
OsteoDetect’s bounding box. Localization accuracy against the union of the
truther bounding boxes and against each of the individual bounding boxes from
the three truthers was reported.
The distance was measured in pixels, where the distance between two centroids is
the Euclidean distance measure based on row and column pixel location. This is
only reported for the true positive radiographs because they are the only ones with
bounding boxes for at least two out of the three truthers. For localization
accuracy, the distances between centroids of the OsteoDetect model bounding box
and the truther bounding box are reported.
 Generalizability Testing: Generalizability testing is performed to demonstrate
OsteoDetect’s ability to perform across different confounding variables.
Confounders considered as factors in a multivariate logistic model were device,
contrast, age group, sex, and presence/absence of a cast. In addition, AUC,
sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value
was calculated for all radiographs in total and for both the PA and LAT views
across the following subgroups: elderly status (i.e., 80 years old) and post-surgical
status.
d. Results
10Detection Accuracy: The AUC of the ROC is 0.965 (95% confidence interval: 0.953,
0.976). The sensitivity, specificity, PPV, and NPV ofOsteoDetect are repo1ted in the
table below.
i.01----=======================~
0.9
0.8
0.7
..>.,. . 0.6
>
~ 0.5
c
Q)
lf) 0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
AUC of ROC 0.965
........ .....................,,...........,.........,........................................
o.o.,_._,~.,.........~ ~,....................., ~.......,.~~
0.0 0. 1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0. 7 0.8 0.9 1.0
1 - Spec ificity
OsteoDetect Standalone Evaluation: Sensitivity, Specificity, PPV, and NPV (90%
and 95% with Wilson's Confidence Intervals:
Wilson's Confidence Intervals
Performance
Metric Est imate 90% 95%
Sensitivity 0.921 (0.892, 0.942) (0.886, 0.946)
Specificity 0.902 (0.882, 0.919) (0.877, 0.922)
PPV 0.813 (0. 777, 0.844) (0.769, 0.850)
NPV 0.961 (0.946, 0.972) (0.943, 0.973)
Localization Accuracy:
The average number ofpixels between the centroids ofthe OsteoDetect model's
predicted bounding box and that ofthe reference standard bounding box was 33.52
11(standard deviation of30.03). The average image size was 1,663 x 1,109 pixels (area of
1,844,267 pixels2 ) and the average area ofthe bounding boxes was 30,164 pixels2 for the
Reference Standard and 34,924 for OsteoDetect. These localization accuracy results
indicate that OsteoDetect will typically draw boxes close to the site ofdetected distal
radius fractures.
Generalizability:
Potential observable confounders such as sex, age, or post-surgical imaging were not
found to statistically affect perfonnance estimates. When evaluated individually by
radiograph and by each subgroup, the AUC ofthe ROC for each subgroup remained
high. The lowest subgroup, post-surgical radiographs, has an AUC of 0.926.
Sensitivity, specificity, PPV, and NPV was high for all subgroups, including both views
and all repo1ted characteristics:
Subgroup Performance Metric (90% Wilson's Cl)
View Characteristic Sensitivity Specificity PPV NPV
PA Post-Surgical: No 0.904 0.934 0.805 0.970
(0.832, 0.947) (0.902, 0.955) (0.724, 0.867) (0.945, 0.984)
Post-Surgical: Yes 0.920 0.779 0.829 0.893
(0.864, 0.954) (0.698, 0.844) (0.762, 0.880) (0.820, 0.939)
Age < 80 0.908 0.897 0.813 0.952
(0.863, 0.940) (0.866, 0.922) (0.759, 0.857) (0.928, 0.969)
Age ;: 80 0.950 0.800 0.864 0.923
(0.804, 0.989) (0.591 , 0.917) (0.703, 0.944) (0.718, 0.983)
LAT Post-Surgical: No 0.940 0.951 0.818 0.985
(0.874, 0.973) (0.925, 0.968) (0.736, 0.879) (0.968, 0.993)
Post-Surgical: Yes 0.921 0.750 0.795 0.900
(0.855, 0.959) (0.658, 0.824) (0.716, 0.857) (0.818, 0.947)
Age < 80 0.925 0.912 0.804 0.969
(0.878, 0.955) (0.883, 0.934) (0.746, 0.851) (0.949, 0.981 )
Age ;: 80 1.000 0.875 0.833 1.000
(0.787, 1.000) (0.684, 0.958) (0.601, 0.943) (0.838, 1.000)
e. Conclusion
12The observed results of standalone testing demonstrate that OsteoDetect by itself, in
the absence of any interaction with a clinician, can detect and localize distal radius
fractures in wrist radiographs with high sensitivity, specificity, AUC, PPV, NPV, and
localization accuracy.
This performance was observed for both PA and LAT views across elderly status and
post-surgical status, and it was observed on radiographs representative of
OsteoDetect’s intended use. Other potential confounders did not significantly affect
performance.
8. Animal and/or Cadaver Testing
None provided.
J. Summary of Clinical Information
1. Reader Study Testing Protocols and Results
Imagen performed a fully crossed, multiple reader multiple case (MRMC) retrospective
study to assess performance of OsteoDetect when used with concurrent reading
(consistent with the device’s intended use) to assist clinicians in detecting distal radius
fractures during interpretation of PA and LAT radiographs of adult wrists. OsteoDetect’s
clinical performance was compared to conventional, unaided clinical interpretations.
a. Data Characteristics
Readers evaluated 200 cases under aided and unaided conditions. The cases were
randomly sampled from the same validation database used for the standalone
performance study. The study cases included 65% female participants and 35% male
participants. 44.5% cases contained fractures, and 36.5% cases were post-surgical.
The image selection process was designed to ensure that at least 25% of cases have distal
radius fracture, and that at least 5% cases correspond to patients 81 years of age and
older. Otherwise, the same inclusion/exclusion criteria were used as in the standalone
performance study.
Prospective readers must meet one of the following criteria in order to be eligible for the
study:
 Medical resident or fellow participating in an Accreditation Council for Graduate
Medical Education (ACGME)-accredited program, or
 U.S. board-eligible/board-certified and licensed Medical Doctor, Doctor of
Osteopathy, Nurse Practitioner, or Physician's Assistant.
b. Test Protocol
13Study Readers:
24 clinical readers were enrolled in the clinical performance evaluation reader study.
Selected readers represented the intended use population and included radiologists (n=4),
orthopedic surgeons (n=4), emergency medicine physicians (n=4), emergency medicine
physician assistants (n=4), internal medicine physicians (n=4), and family practice
physicians (n=4), with a mean 15.3 years of experience (range: 3–35 years). Each of the
24 readers completed all 400 reads, 200 OsteoDetect-Aided and 200 OsteoDetect-
Unaided.
Each image was assigned a ground truth label (presence or absence of distal radius
fracture), determined by majority opinion of three U.S. board-certified orthopedic hand
surgeons. Each case is comprised of the PA, LAT, and (when available) oblique images
for a patient visit. Each case was assigned ground truth based on presence or absence of
distal radius fracture in any of the case’s images. (Note that this ground truth definition is
made on a complete case basis, whereas in the standalone testing ground truth was
defined on an individual image basis, as OsteoDetect performs its assessment on an
individual image basis while the end user diagnoses on a per-case basis).
A sample size calculation determined that 24 readers and 200 cases were needed to
achieve greater than 80% power to detect a difference between aided and unaided reads.
Study duration: 4 months
All readers independently read all cases, both OsteoDetect-aided and OsteoDetect-
unaided. Reading sessions were separated by a minimum one-month washout period.
For each case, each reader is asked to 1) determine presence or absence of distal radius
fracture, making a binary yes/no response, and 2) report confidence in their binary
decision on a 0 – 100% scale.
c. Endpoints
Primary objective: The primary objective of the clinical reader study is to determine
whether the diagnostic accuracy of readers aided by OsteoDetect is superior to reader
accuracy when unaided by OsteoDetect, as determined by the AUC of the ROC
curve:
H : AUC - AUC ≤ 0
0 aided unaided
H : AUC - AUC > 0
1 aided unaided
Secondary objective: The secondary objective is to report the population-average
sensitivity and specificity of the OsteoDetect-aided and unaided reads.
d. Test Results
Primary objective:
14The diagnostic accuracy ofOsteoDetect-aided reads was found to be superior to
OsteoDetect-unaided reads for the intended use population (p=0.0056). The least squares
mean difference between the AUC for OsteoDetect-aided and OsteoDetect-unaided reads
is 0.049 (95% CI, (0.019, 0.080)).
1.0
0.8
c
0.6
:~
·~
il)
Cl)
0.4
0.0-v;..------~--~--------..J
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
1 - Specificity
I I
Modality --­ OD-Aided - - - OD-Unaided
95%
Model Modality AUC Std. OD Aided ­ Std. Error p-value Lower 95%
Error OD Unaided CL Upper CL
ROC AUC OD -Aided 0.889 0.029 0.049 0.013 0.0056 0.019 0.080
Full Model
OD ­ Unaided 0.840 0.029 - - - - -
Hl was not rejected.
Secondaiy objective:
The sensitivity, specificity, PPV, and NPV for the OsteoDetect-aided and OsteoDetect­
unaided Reads ai·e repo1ied below with 95% Wilson 's Confidence Interval:
15Estimate {95% Wilson's Cl)
Modality Sensitivity Specificity PPV NPV
OD-Aided 0.803 0.914 0.883 0.853
(0.785, 0.819) (0.903, 0.924) (0.868, 0.896) (0.839, 0.865)
OD-Unaided 0.747 0.889 0.844 0.814
(0.728, 0.765) (0.876, 0.900) (0.826, 0.859) (0.800, 0.828)
The number oftrne positive, trne negative, false positive, and false negative cases for
OsteoDetect-aided and OsteoDetect-unaided reads were repo1ied as follows:
Modality TP TN FP FN
OD-Aided 1715 2436 228 421
OD-Unaided 1596 2368 296 540
Total 3311 4804 524 961
Assessment of Aided and Unaided reader perfo1mance based on impo1iant coho1is
Imagen repo1ied the AUC ofthe ROC, OsteoDetect-aided and OsteoDetect-unaided,
broken down for each reader type, which included Emergency Medicine Physicians,
Emergency Medicine Physician Assistants, Family Practice Physicians, Internal Medicine
Physicians, 01ihopedic Surgeons, and Radiologists. Improvement in the perfo1mance of
OsteoDetect-aided reads was seen across all reader types as compared with OsteoDetect­
unaided reads.
The improvement in sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative
predictive value was observed consistently whether or not oblique (OBL) radiographic
views are available in a case:
Estimate (95% Wilson's Cl)
Modality Number Sensitivity Specificity PPV NPV
(Type) of
Views
OD-Aided 2 (PA+ LAT) 0.810 (0.782, 0.915 (0.897, 0.871 (0.845, 0.872 (0.852,
0.835) 0.930) 0.893) 0.889)
OD- 2 (PA+ LAT) 0.732 (0.700, 0.898 (0.879, 0.835 (0.806, 0.825 (0.803,
Unaided 0.761 ) 0.914) 0.860) 0.845)
OD -Aided 3 (PA+LAT+ 0.798 (0.776, 0.914 (0.899, 0.890 (0.871, 0.839 (0.820,
OBL) 0.819) 0.927) 0.907) 0.856)
OD- 3 (PA+ LAT+ 0.757 (0.733, 0.882 (0.865, 0.849 (0.827, 0.806 (0.786,
Unaided OBL) 0.779) 0.898) 0.868) 0.824)
16Imagen also assessed and reported the OsteoDetect-aided and OsteoDetect-unaided AUC
(and sensitivity, specificity, PPV, NPV) results broken down by relevant confounders
(patient demographics and presence or absence of a cast, post-surgical images, imaging
device used to acquire radiographs). The study demonstrated consistent improvement of
performance across metrics and confounders in OsteoDetect-aided reads as compared to
OsteoDetect-unaided reads.
e. Conclusion
The primary endpoint was met, demonstrating improvement in performance of readers
when aided by OsteoDetect as measured by the AUC of the ROC. The full DBM model
described in the study protocol shows a statistically significant higher AUC in
OsteoDetect-aided reads than in the OsteoDetect-unaided reads (p=0.0056).
The secondary endpoint demonstrated improvement of sensitivity, specificity, positive
predictive value, and negative predictive value of readers aided by OsteoDetect as
compared to when unaided by OsteoDetect. For each above specified performance
metric, there was no overlap in the 95% confidence intervals of the OsteoDetect-aided
and the OsteoDetect-unaided reads.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 801, including 21
CFR Part 801.109 for prescription devices, and the special controls for this device type. The
OsteoDetect User Manual provides the detailed instructions for use. Other elements of the
required labeling for OsteoDetect for this device type are noted below.
1. Indicated patient population
The target population for the device is adults (age 22 or older) who are suspected of
having a distal radius fracture.
2. Indicated user population
The intended users of OsteoDetect are clinicians in various settings including primary
care (e.g., family practice, internal medicine), emergency medicine, urgent care, and
specialty care (e.g., orthopedics), as well as radiologists who review radiographs across
settings.
When a clinician accesses the patient radiographs in a PACS client, both the
OsteoDetect-annotated radiographs and the original, unaltered radiographs are available
in the same patient study, allowing for concurrent reading.
3. Intended Reader Protocol and Device Inputs and Outputs
The end user interacts with the output of OsteoDetect in the facility’s PACS software.
17Annotated DICOM images processed by OsteoDetect are to be read concurrently by the
clinician with the original, unannotated radiographs.
If a distal radius fracture is detected by OsteoDetect, the software annotates the image by
creating a bounding box surrounding the fracture with the label “Distal Radius Fracture:
DETECTED.” If none is detected, the message label “Distal Radius Fracture: NOT
DETECTED” appears. Whether or not the software detects a distal radius fracture, when
OsteoDetect analyzes an image it annotates the radiograph to include a message stating
that the radiograph was analyzed by OsteoDetect, and includes instructions for users to
access device labeling.
The annotated radiographs are available in the same patient study as the unaltered
radiographs, allowing for a concurrent read. Annotated images should always be read
concurrently with the original, unannotated radiographs according to standard of practice.
4. Device Limitations
Warnings:
 Clinicians should review OsteoDetect annotated images concurrently with original
images before making a final determination on a case. OsteoDetect is an adjunct tool
and does not replace the role of the clinician. Clinicians must not use the CAD
generated output as the primary interpretation.
 OsteoDetect is not designed to detect fractures other than distal radius fractures.
Clinicians should review original images for all suspected pathologies.
 OsteoDetect may not detect a distal radius fracture in both the PA and LAT views.
Clinicians should follow standard clinical procedures in assessing PA and LAT
views.
 All images must have proper DICOM tags. OsteoDetect performance may be reduced
on images that do not have correct DICOM tags.
Adverse Effects:
OsteoDetect is designed to assist clinicians in their review of posterior-anterior (PA) and
lateral (LAT) wrist radiographs. It does not modify the existing image acquisition process
nor alter the native images. Additionally, the use of the software does not directly involve
the patient. Therefore, there is no known direct safety or health risk caused by, or related
to, the use of the device. The indirect risks associated with the use of OsteoDetect are:
1. False positive. When reviewing radiographs with the aid of OsteoDetect, there is
a chance that a false positive may occur, potentially leading to additional
diagnostic work-up.
2. False negative. When reviewing radiographs with the aid of OsteoDetect, there is
a chance that users may rely too heavily on the absence of OsteoDetect findings
without sufficiently assessing the native image. This may result in missing
fractures that may have otherwise been found.
183. Device misuse. When reviewing radiographs with the aid of OsteoDetect, there is
a chance that the device could be misused to analyze images from an unintended
patient population or on images acquired with incompatible imaging hardware or
incompatible image acquisition parameters, potentially leading to inappropriate
information regarding the presence/location of a fracture being provided to the
end user.
4. Device failure. When reviewing radiographs with the aid of OsteoDetect, the
device could fail and lead to absence of results, delay of results, or incorrect
results. This may result in delayed or inaccurate patient diagnosis
These potential risks are mitigated by the fact that OsteoDetect is only intended to be
used as an adjunct tool and is not intended as a replacement for the clinician's review of
the radiograph or his or her clinical judgment, in addition to the mandatory special
controls assigned to this device type, along with general controls. The original, unaltered
radiographs are available for concurrent reading with the OsteoDetect-annotated
radiographs.
5. Compatible Hardware
OsteoDetect performs computer-aided detection on radiographs produced by the
following systems:
 Philips Medical Systems DigitalDiagnost
 Carestream Health DRX-1
 GE Discovery XR656
OsteoDetect does not support any other imaging system.
OsteoDetect requires a dedicated physical machine with the following minimum
specifications:
 Intel Xeon E3-1225 v5 or comparable (with at least 2 CPU cores)
 16GB RAM or more
 100 GB or more free space
 100 Mbps or faster Ethernet interface to the institution’s DICOM network
It is strongly recommended that the machine is certified compatible with ESXi.
OsteoDetect should be installed on top of the vSphere Hypervisor, ESXi 6.0 Update 2.
6. Device Instructions
Device instructions are provided in the user manual for OsteoDetect.
The user manual specifies radiology technologist training requirements to ensure that the
appropriate metadata tags are applied to all cases so that OsteoDetect can correctly
identify images to be analyzed by the algorithm. Technologists are required to:
 Identify the intended use of OsteoDetect;
 Identify OsteoDetect’s warnings.
19The user manual specifies that clinicians using OsteoDetect are required to:
• Identify the intended use ofOsteoDetect;
• Identify OsteoDetect's warnings;
• Identify the key perfonnance characteristics ofOsteoDetect:
• Be aware ofthe OsteoDetect outputs on an image.
7. Perf01m ance Testing Summaiy
A sUilllnaiy ofthe clinical perfonnance assessment, including its primaiy and secondaiy
objectives, study design, and results ai·e included in the user manual. The results repo1ied
in this section include the ROC cmves for OsteoDetect-aided and -unaided reads, and
sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value results for
aided and unaided reads. The breakdown ofperfo1mance results included perfonnance
when 2 radiograph views (PA+ LAT) or 3 radiograph views (PAT+ LAT+ OBL) were
available for the reader to review.
A sUilllnaiy ofthe standalone perfonnance assessment is included in the End User Guide,
Section 6 (Summaiy ofStandalone Perfo1mance Assessment). This report includes a
discussion ofthe objectives, study design, and an ove1view ofthe study results. The
results repo1ied in this section include the ROC cmve, sensitivity, specificity, PPV and
NPV, localization accuracy, and generalizability results across several potentially
confounding vai·iables (age > 80 yeai·s, PA vs. LAT view, post-surgical imaging).
L. Identified Risks to Health and Identified Mitigations
Identified Risks Identified Mitigation
Measures
False positive results General controls and special controls
(1) and (2).
False negative results General controls and special controls
(1) and (2).
Device misuse (analyzing images from General controls and special controls
unintended patient population or ofan (1) and (2).
unintended anatomical site; or images
acquired with an unintended modality,
incompatible imaging hai·dwai·e, or
incompatible image acquisition
parameters) resulting in lower device
perfo1mance (inappropriate
detection/diagnosis info1m ation being
displayed to the end user)
Device failure could lead to absence of General controls and special controls
results, delay ofresults, or inco1Tect (1) and (2).
results, which can lead to delayed or
inaccurate patient dia!lllosis
20M. Benefit/Risk Determination
Summary
Summary of the The clinical MRMC study demonstrated a statistically significant
Benefit(s) improvement in reader perfo1mance in detecting distal radius fracture in
adult patients (as measured by the prima1y endpoint of the ROC Area
Under the Curve) when aided with OsteoDetect as compared to
perfonnance at the same task without OsteoDetect, according to clinical
standard ofcare.
AUCaided -AUCunaided = 0.889 - 0.840= 0.049 (two sided 95%
confidence level [0.019,0.080])
OsteoDetect-aided read perfo1mance also showed statistically significant
improvement as measured by sensitivity, specificity, PPV, and NPV as
compared with the unaided read perfo1mance. Specifically, Imagen's
study demonstrated a device-aided sensitivity of 80.3% (two sided 95%
confidence interval for the mean: [78.5%,81.9%]) and device-aided
specificity of91.4% (two sided 95% confidence interval for the mean:
[90.3%,92.4%]). By comparison, the study demonstrated non-aided
sensitivity and specificity of 74.7% [72.8%,76.5%] and 88.9%
[87.6%,90.0%], respectively.
Earlier detection ofa distal radial fracture will allow earlier intervention,
potentially allowing closed reduction and casting instead ofopen
reduction, minimizing the risk of delayed pain and post-traumatic
aithritis.
Summary of the There are minimal potential risks associated with use of the device,
Risk(s) including:
• The device could provide false positive results, which could
contribute to the end user using this info1mation to make a false
positive diagnosis. Such a false positive diagnosis can result in
unnecessaiy patient treatment or followup.
• The device could provide false negative results, which could
contribute to the end user using this info1mation to make a false
negative diagnosis. A false negative diagnosis could lead to
delays in diagnosis and treatment of the fracture and increase the
likelihood ofnegative outcomes such as incomplete fracture
healing.
• The device could be inisused to analyze images from an
unintended patient population or on images acquired with
21incompatible imaging hardware or incompatible image
acquisition parameters, leading to inappropriate information
regarding the presence/location ofa fracture being provided to
the end user.
• The device could fail and lead to absence of results, delay of
results, or inco1Tect results, which can lead to delayed or
inaccurate patient diagnosis
However, based on the perfonnance data and the application ofgeneral
controls and special controls established for this device type, use ofthis
device is unlikely to increase the rate offalse negative or false positive
diagnoses of distal radius fracture as compared with the cmTent clinical
standard ofpractice. Fmt her, possible misuse ofthe device does not
present additional risks compared with the misuse ofother types of
radiological image processing devices.
Summary of CmTently, injuries to the hand and wrist account for approximately 20%
Other Factors ofvisits to the emergency depaitment, with a total ofapproximately 3.5
million hand and wrist injuries noted in 2009, for an incidence of 1130
injuries per 100,000 persons per yeai·. (Hand (NY) 2012; 7:18-22) By
detecting a potentially occult distal radial fracture earlier, pain, post­
traumatic aithritis, and possible disability are alleviated, resulting in a
potential significant improvement in US public health.
This software tool brings the expe1tise ofmusculoskeletal radiologists
and 01thopaedic surgeons specializing in hand surge1y to emergency
medicine physicians and physician assistants, fainily practice physicians,
and internal medicine physicians. Therefore, subspecialty expertise is
potentially available to emergency rooms across the countiy with the use
ofthis software device.
Conclusions The benefited population would include adult patients with clinically
Do the probable suspected distal radius fracture. This softwai·e potentially brings
benefits outweigh subspecialty expe1tise ofmusculoskeletal radiologists and 01thopaedic
the probable risks? surgeons specializing in hand and wrist surge1y to physicians and
physician assistants working in emergency rooms across the countiy.
The underlying statistics as discussed above justify that the perfo1m ance
ofthe device has been clinically validated in a fully crossed design. The
4 types of clinical providers (emergency medicine physicians, emergency
medicine physician assistants, family medicine physicians, and internal
medicine physicians) most likely to staff emergency rooms were
separately evaluated, and all showed improvement in the detection ofa
distal radial fracture aided by the device. Given that the standai·d ofcare
in 2018 is to cast and have a follow-up X-ray in 10-14 days or perfo1m
an MRI in cases where a distal radial fracture is clinically suspected in
22the face ofa n01mal hand/wrist X-ray series, a softwai·e device that
detects distal radial fracture eai·lier is a potential significant benefit to
public health. Accordingly, the probable benefits ofthe device outweigh
the probable risks, mainly a false positive diagnosis, given the
combination ofgeneral conti-ols and special conti·ols established for this
device type ..
The hand and wrist are the most commonly injured paii ofthe body and
1/6 of fractures presenting to emergency rooms are distal radial fractures.
This software device has the potential to result in significant
improvement in public health while introducing minimal additional
clinical risks ofextra follow-up, ti·eatment, and imaging.
Patient Perspectives
This submission did not include specific info1mation on patient perspectives for this device.
N. Conclusion
The info1mation provided in this de novo submission is sufficient to classify this device into
class II under regulation 21 CFR 892.2090. FDA believes that the stated special conti·ols, in
combination with the general conti·ols, provide a reasonable assurance ofthe safety and
effectiveness ofthe device type. The device is classified under the following:
Product Code: QBS
Device Type: Radiological Computer Assisted Detection and Diagnosis Softwai·e
Class: II
Regulation: 21CFR892.2090
(a) Identification. A radiological computer assisted detection and diagnostic softwai·e is
an image processing device intended to aid in the detection, localization, and
chai·acterization offracture, lesions, or other disease specific findings on acquired
medical images (e.g. radiography, MR, CT). The device detects, identifies and
characterizes findings based on features or infonnation exh'acted from images, and
provides infonnation about the presence, location, and chai·acteristics ofthe findings
to the user. The analysis is intended to info1m the prima1y diagnostic and patient
management decisions that ai·e made by the clinical user. The device is not intended
as a replacement for a complete clinician's review or their clinical judgment that takes
into account other relevant infonnation from the image or patient histo1y.
Classification. Class II (special conti·ols). A radiological computer assisted detection
and diagnosis softwai·e must comply with the following special conti·ols:
231. Design verification and validation must include:
i. A detailed description of the image analysis algorithm, including but not limited
to a description of the algorithm inputs and outputs, each major component or
block, how the algorithm and output affects or relates to clinical practice or
patient care, and any algorithm limitations.
ii. A detailed description of pre-specified performance testing protocols and
dataset(s) used to assess whether the device will provide improved assisted-read
detection and diagnostic performance as intended in the indicated user
population(s), and to characterize the standalone device performance for labeling.
Performance testing includes standalone test(s), side-by-side comparison(s),
and/or a reader study, as applicable.
iii. Results from standalone performance testing used to characterize the independent
performance of the device separate from aided user performance. The
performance assessment must be based on appropriate diagnostic accuracy
measures (e.g., receiver operator characteristic plot, sensitivity, specificity,
positive and negative predictive values, and diagnostic likelihood ratio). Devices
with localization output must include localization accuracy testing as a component
of standalone testing. The test dataset must be representative of the typical patient
population with enrichment made only to ensure that the test dataset contain a
sufficient number of cases from important cohorts (e.g., subsets defined by
clinically relevant confounders, effect modifiers, concomitant disease, and subsets
defined by image acquisition characteristics) such that the performance estimates
and confidence intervals of the device for these individual subsets can be
characterized for the intended use population and imaging equipment.
iv. Results from performance testing that demonstrate that the device provides
improved assisted-read detection and/or diagnostic performance as intended in the
indicated user population(s) when used in accordance with the instructions for
use. The reader population must be comprised of the intended user population in
terms of but not limited to clinical training, certification, and years of experience.
The performance assessment must be based on appropriate diagnostic accuracy
measures (e.g., receiver operator characteristic plot, sensitivity, specificity,
positive and negative predictive values, and diagnostic likelihood ratio). Test
datasets must meet the requirements described in 1(iii) above.
v. Appropriate software documentation, including device hazard analysis, software
requirements specification document, software design specification document,
traceability analysis, system level test protocol, pass/fail criteria, testing results,
and cybersecurity measures.
2. Labeling must include the following:
24i. A detailed description of the patient population for which the device is indicated
for use.
ii. A detailed description of the device instructions for use, including the intended
reading protocol and how the user should interpret the device output.
iii. A detailed description of the intended user, and any user training materials as
programs that addresses appropriate reading protocols for the device to ensure
that the end user is fully aware of how to interpret and apply the device output.
iv. A detailed description of the device inputs and outputs.
v. A detailed description of compatible imaging hardware and imaging protocols.
vi. Warnings, precautions, and limitations must include situations in which the device
may fail or may not operate at its expected performance level (e.g., poor image
quality or for certain subpopulations), as applicable.
vii. A detailed summary of the performance testing, including: test methods, dataset
characteristics, results, and a summary of sub-analyses on case distributions
stratified by relevant confounders, such as anatomical characteristics, patient
demographics and medical history, user experience, and imaging equipment.
25