DE NOVO CLASSIFICATION REQUEST FOR
BRAINSCOPE AHEAD 100, MODELS CV-100 AND M-100
REGULATORY INFORMATION
FDA identifies this generic type of device as:
Brain Injury Adjunctive Interpretive Electroencephalograph Assessment Aid. A Brain
Injury Adjunctive Interpretive Electroencephalograph Assessment Aid is a prescription
device that uses a patient’s electroencephalograph (EEG) to provide an interpretation of the
structural condition of the patient’s brain in the setting of trauma. A Brain Injury
Adjunctive Interpretive EEG Assessment Aid is for use as an adjunct to standard clinical
practice only as an assessment aid for a medical condition for which there exists other valid
methods of diagnosis.
NEW REGULATION NUMBER: 882.1450
CLASSIFICATION: CLASS II
PRODUCT CODE: PIW
BACKGROUND
DEVICE NAME: AHEAD 100, MODELS CV-100 AND M-100
SUBMISSION NUMBER: DEN140025
DATE OF DE NOVO: AUGUST 19, 2014
CONTACT: BRAINSCOPE COMPANY, INC
AMIT RELIA, SENIOR DIRECTOR, QUALITY ASSURANCE/REGULATORY AFFAIRS
4350 EAST WEST HIGHWAY
SUITE 1050
BETHESDA, MD 20814
REQUESTER’S RECOMMENDED CLASSIFICATION: CLASS II
INDICATIONS FOR USE
• The Ahead® 100, consisting of two models, i.e., the Ahead® M-100 and the Ahead®
CV-100, is indicated for use as an adjunct to standard clinical practice to aid in the
evaluation of patients who are being considered for a head CT, but should not be used
as a substitute for a CT scan. This device is to be used for this purpose in patients who
sustained a closed head injury within 24 hours, clinically present as a mild traumatic
brain injury with a Glasgow Coma Scale score (GCS) of 13-15, and are between the
ages of 18-80 years.
De Novo Summary (DEN140025) Page 1• A negative BrainScope® Classification may correspond to brain electrical activity
consistent with no structural brain injury visible on head CT in patients presenting as a
mild traumatic brain injury, within 24 hours of injury.
• A positive BrainScope® Classification corresponds to brain electrical activity that may
be present in both patients with or without a structural brain injury visible on head CT.
A positive BrainScope® Classification does not establish the presence of a structural
brain injury visible on head CT.
• The Ahead® 100 device is intended to record, measure, analyze, and display brain
electrical activity utilizing the calculation of standard quantitative EEG (qEEG)
parameters from frontal locations on a patient’s forehead. The Ahead® 100 calculates
and displays raw measures for the following standard qEEG measures: Absolute and
Relative Power, Asymmetry, Coherence and Fractal Dimension. These raw measures
are intended to be used for post hoc analysis of EEG signals for interpretation by a
qualified user.
• The Ahead® M-100 model additionally stores and displays an electronic version of the
Military Acute Concussion Evaluation (MACE) cognitive assessment and user-entered
responses to the MACE questions. There is no interaction between EEG-related
functionality, including analyzing and displaying brain electrical activity, and the
function of storing and displaying MACE information.
• The Ahead® 100 is intended for use by physicians, or under the direction of a
physician, who have been trained in the use of the device.
• The Ahead® 100 is a prescription use device.
LIMITATIONS
For prescription use only.
The Ahead 100 should not be used in patients with Glasgow Coma Scale score < 13.
The safety and effectiveness of the Ahead 100 device has not been evaluated in patients
who:
• Have forehead, scalp, or skull abnormalities or other conditions that would prevent
correct application of the electrode headset
• Have an open head injury
• Are currently receiving sedation medications
• Have a history of brain surgery
• Have Parkinson’s Disease
• Have multiple sclerosis
• Have a seizure disorder
• Have brain tumors
De Novo Summary (DEN140025) Page 2• Have a psychiatric disorder for which they take psychiatric medication on a daily
basis
• Have chronic drug or alcohol abuse
• Have a history of stroke or TIA within the past year
• Are currently receiving dialysis or are in end-stage renal disease
• Have an active fever defined as greater than 100°F or 37.7°C
The Ahead 100 should only be used by physicians, or under the direction of a physician,
who have been trained in the use of the device. To ensure proper device performance, the
user must first perform a diagnostic evaluation per the standard of their practice that
includes an evaluation using the Glasgow Coma Scale. Ahead 100 interpretations are
based on the clinician’s initial diagnostic evaluation, the subject’s age and the EEG
results.
The device should not be used as a substitute for a CT scan or as a stand-alone diagnostic
device.
PLEASE REFER TO THE LABELING FOR A MORE COMPLETE LIST OF WARNINGS
AND PRECAUTIONS.
DEVICE DESCRIPTION
The Ahead 100 is a portable EEG system consisting of two models: the Ahead M-100 and the
Ahead CV-100. As stated in the Indications for Use above, the only functional difference
between the M-100 model and the CV-100 model is that the M-100 stores and displays an
electronic version of the Military Acute Concussion Evaluation (MACE) cognitive assessment
and user-entered responses to the MACE questions in addition to all other device functionality as
discussed below.
The Ahead 100 device is comprised of the following main components:
1. The Ahead 100 Handheld Unit
2. The Electrode Headset
3. The Patient Interface Cable
4. The Compact Flash Card (CF Card)
The Handheld Unit, Patient Interface Cable, and Electrode Headset (Figures 1 and 2) interface
together to facilitate the collection of EEG data from the patient. The Electrode Headset includes
8 wet gel electrodes integrated into a single use, disposable headset that allows for electrode
placement over the following frontal locations: Fp1, Fp2, Fpz, AFz, F7, F8, A1, and A2 as
defined by the standardized International 10-20 Electrode Placement System (Figure 3). The
Patient Interface Cable connects the Electrode Headset to the Handheld Unit and contains a
preamplifier that prepares the electrical signals measured by the Electrode Headset for
processing by the Handheld Unit.
De Novo Summary (DEN140025) Page 3Figure 1. Handheld Unit and Patient Interface Cable
Figure 2. Electrode Headset
De Novo Summary (DEN140025) Page 4Figure 3. Patient wearing an applied Electrode Headset
The Handheld Unit employs a color, touch-screen user interface and utilizes proprietary software
to perform real-time analyses of the collected EEG data. Using the Handheld Unit, the user is
able to review the raw EEG data, view spectral plots, and view a number of calculated
quantitative EEG (qEEG) measures including Absolute and Relative Power, Asymmetry,
Coherence and Fractal Dimension.
The software utilized by the Handheld Unit also processes the collected raw EEG to produce the
final Ahead 100 classification. This data analysis includes filtering the raw EEG, performing
artifact reduction, computation of a variety of qEEG features across specific frequency bands,
normalization of these computed features, a quality check to identify potential outliers,
integration of these features to determine the appropriate classification, and finally a graphical
display of this classification to the user. The algorithm used to integrate the computed features
and determine a classification was pre-established in a separate study, prior to validation in the
B-AHEAD II study.
The Ahead 100 device provides one of two potential classifications of the patient’s recorded
EEG data (Figure 4):
1. “May correspond to brain electrical activity consistent with no structural brain injury
visible on head CT in patients presenting as a mild traumatic brain injury, within 24 hours
of injury.” or,
2. “Corresponds to brain electrical activity that may be present in both patients with or
without a structural brain injury visible on head CT. A positive result does not establish
the presence of a structural brain injury visible on head CT.”
De Novo Summary (DEN140025) Page 5Figure 4. BrainScope Device Classification of the Patient’s EEG data
SUMMARY OF NONCLINICAL/BENCH STUDIES
The sponsor conducted a series of bench testing to demonstrate that the Ahead 100 device would
perform as anticipated. Please refer to the sub-sections below for a discussion of each of the
types of non-clinical testing performed.
BIOCOMPATIBILITY/MATERIALS
The patient contacting materials packaged as part of the Ahead 100 are the electrode
headset and skin prep kit. The electrode headset provided with the Ahead 100 is
manufactured and procured from Techprint, Inc. and Vermed, Inc. Biocompatibility
testing according to ISO 10993 has been provided that demonstrates safety of the
electrode headset for the intended single use and not for use over broken skin.
Cytotoxicity for the hydrogel and adhesive used in the headset were Grade 1 and Grade 2,
respectively. Primary Irritation Index for the hydrogel and adhesive were 0.0 and 0.9,
respectively. Neither component exhibited signs of causing delayed dermal contact
sensitization. This information is sufficient.
SHELF LIFE/STERILITY
The Ahead 100 is not provided sterile nor are any of the components to be sterilized by
the end user. Cleaning and maintenance instructions for the handheld component of the
Ahead 100 are included in the labeling.
De Novo Summary (DEN140025) Page 6The disposable electrodes are single use, so cleaning instructions for the electrodes have
not been provided.
Neither the Ahead 100 nor any of its components are provided sterile. Using a real time
aging protocol, the estimated product life of the Handheld Unit is 5 years and the single-
use disposable Electrode Headset has a shelf life of 12 months. Based on the nature of
the system components, this estimation of product life is acceptable.
ELECTROMAGNETIC COMPATIBILITY (EMC) AND ELECTRICAL SAFETY
The Ahead 100 device was tested in accordance with the following consensus standards
and passed the following EMC, immunity, electrical, mechanical, and thermal safety
tests:
Standard Name
IEC60601-1: 1988 +A1: 1991 +A2: 1995 Medical Electrical Equipment; Part 1: General
Requirements for Safety
IEC60601-2-26: 2002 Medical Electrical Equipment Part 2-26: Particular
Requirements for the Safety of
Electroencephalographs
IEC60601-1-2: 2007 Medical electrical equipment; Part 1-2: General
Requirements for Safety - Section 2:
Collateral standard: Electromagnetic
compatibility - Requirements and tests.
IEC60601-1-4 Medical Electrical Equipment; Part 1-4: General
Requirements for Safety - Collateral
Standard. Programmable Electrical Medical
Systems.
IEC/UL 60950-1 Information technology equipment - Safety - Part 1:
General requirements.
SOFTWARE
Software for the device consisted of proprietary software. The software is consistent with
a ‘MODERATE’ level of concern, as discussed in the FDA document, “Guidance for the
Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical Devices,” issued
May 11, 2005.
PERFORMANCE TESTING – BENCH
The sponsor provided sufficient bench testing and all results demonstrated acceptable
performance. Non-clinical testing included functional verification testing of the
following:
 Battery charge and discharge according to specification
 Impedance measurement and display
 EEG signal measurement and display
 Noise performance
De Novo Summary (DEN140025) Page 7 Common mode rejection ratio (CMRR)
 Frequency and phase response within EEG frequency bands
 Repeatability and reliability testing demonstrating consistency of the device outputs
when testing is administered by a variety of physicians as well as when testing is
administered on the same subject at multiple different times
 Artifact reduction
 qEEG feature calculation
 Discriminant score calculation and final classification that demonstrates the
algorithm performs predictable and repeatable calculations given a fixed or
known set of input data
 Human factors engineering/usability that obtains either data or feedback from users
of the device in order to verify adequate use and operability of the device
 Software verification and validation testing as mentioned above that includes a
complete device hazard analysis
SUMMARY OF CLINICAL INFORMATION
Clinical Study Design
A prospective, controlled, non-randomized, pivotal study was conducted to validate the
EEG-derived BrainScope Ahead 100 device classification in the discrimination between
subjects suspected of having a traumatic brain injury (TBI) who have a structural brain
injury on CT scan (CT+) and subjects who either have no structural injury on CT scan or
in whom a CT scan was not indicated (CT-). Subjects were to be 18-80 years of age
admitted to an Emergency Department (ED) with suspicion of TBI and with a GCS > 8.
The injury was specified to have occurred within 24 hours of presentation to the ED. The
study was not designed to include a separate “control” group of non-head-injured subjects
in the statistical analysis, though such subjects were recruited and enrolled as a separate
cohort. A head-injured control group who were suspected of or sustained a head injury
but did not report or manifest symptoms (e.g., presented with facial lacerations or
whiplash) was recruited and included as well. Exclusion criteria included
 forehead, scalp, or skull abnormalities or other conditions that would prevent
correct application of the electrode headset;
 dementia,
 Parkinson’s Disease,
 multiple sclerosis,
 seizure disorder,
 brain tumors,
 history of brain surgery,
 chronic psychiatric history or taking daily psychiatric drugs,
 drug or alcohol abuse,
 fever,
 currently receiving dialysis or in ESRD,
 condition listed as “critical”,
 open head injury,
 advanced airway management,
De Novo Summary (DEN140025) Page 8 receiving sedatives, and
 pregnancy.
Subjects who received a head CT and met the New Orleans Criteria (NOC) were used for
the truth assessment of structural injury. Subjects who presented with GCS = 15 and did
not meet the NOC were considered CT negative. If a head CT was performed on a
subject with GCS = 15 and no clinical findings, then the CT results were used as the
truth. The final head CT readings were reviewed by a panel of 3 blinded
neuroradiologists, and classification was determined by a majority of the panel. Data
acquisition by the subject device was to occur in the ED. All treating physicians were to
be blinded to the output of the Ahead 100 device. A follow-up visit 72-96 hours after
initial visit was conducted in person or via telephone to determine the subject’s level of
injury recovery as well as if additional brain imaging (e.g., CT Scan or MRI) was
conducted.
The primary endpoint of the study is the sensitivity and specificity of the device in
discriminating structural brain injury on CT scan (CT+) in patients suspected of head
injury from those who either have a head injury without CT findings or no head injury
(CT-). A lower one-sided 95% confidence limit greater than 78% for sensitivity and a
lower one-sided 95% confidence limit greater than 50% for specificity were defined as
the pre-specified performance endpoints. The study also included a secondary objective
to compute the negative and positive predictive values (NPV and PPV, respectively) for a
range of prevalence of CT+ subjects, although no performance goals were specified.
Clinical Study Results
A total of 817 subjects were enrolled at 11 study sites in the US and were included in the
intent-to-treat (ITT) population, of which 552 subjects were included in the analysis of
diagnostic accuracy per the intended use. Of the 265 subjects not included in the analysis,
142 subjects were non-head injured controls that were not part of the intended use
population and were excluded, and 123 subjects had missing data in the form of either a
missing clinical classification or a missing device classification.
The clinical classification and Ahead 100 device classification results are provided in
Table 1. The specificity, sensitivity, PPV and NPV are provided in Table 2.
Table 1. Classification results of the Ahead 100 device versus Clinical Classification
Ahead 100 Clinical Classification Total
Classification CT+ Missing CT-
Positive 91 6 224 321
Missing 20 19 70 109
Negative 25 8 212 245
Total 136 33 506 675
De Novo Summary (DEN140025) Page 9Table 2. Performance results for the Ahead 100 classification
95% Confidence
Estimate Interval
Specificity (%) 48.6% (212/436) (43.8%, 53.4%)
Sensitivity (%) 78.5% (91/116) (69.9%, 85.5%)
PPV (%) 28.9% (91/315) (23.9%, 34.2%)
NPV (%) 89.5% (212/237) (84.8%, 93.1%)
For PPV (positive predictive value) and NPV (negative predictive value) reference, the study prevalence of
the positive condition (structural abnormality confirmed on CT scan) was 21% (116/552).
Conclusions
While the clinical study failed to meet the predefined primary endpoints, the use of the
Ahead 100 device may provide adjunctive information about patients when the clinician
does not deem it necessary to order a CT scan, adding confidence in the clinical decision
path. Ahead 100 device performance has been established by the measured NPV in the
clinical investigation. With a study prevalence of 21%, the NPV was 89.5%,
demonstrating an 89.5% probability that patients with a negative device classification had
no structural injury identifiable on head CT. A negative classification may correspond to
brain electrical activity consistent with no structural brain injury visible on head CT in
patients presenting as a mild traumatic brain injury, within 24 hours of injury.
Ahead 100 device safety has been established. Physical use of the device has been shown
to be safe. EEG collection is a non-invasive procedure. No adverse device events and no
unanticipated adverse device events were reported in the clinical investigation.
LABELING
The Ahead CV-100 System User Manual and Ahead M-100 System User Manual are consistent
with the clinical data and cover all the hazards and other clinically relevant information that may
impact use of the device (see Ahead CV-100 System User Manual and Ahead M-100 System User
Manual). The labeling satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR § 801.109 Prescription devices. The
labeling for the Ahead 100 includes:
1. A warning that the device is not to be used as a stand-alone diagnostic.
2. A detailed summary of the clinical performance testing, including any adverse events
and complications.
3. The qualifications and training requirements for device users including technicians
and clinicians.
4. The intended use population and the intended use environment.
5. Instructions technicians should convey to patients regarding the collection of EEG
data.
6. Information allowing clinicians to gauge clinical risk associated with integrating the
EEG-based measure of structural brain injury into their diagnostic pathway, including
instructions in case the device is unable to provide results for any reason.
De Novo Summary (DEN140025) Page 10The safety characteristics and intended purpose of the device requires training of the end-user
(see also Ahead CV-100 System User Manual and Ahead M-100 System User Manual).
Clinicians utilizing the Ahead 100 output report should be physicians who have familiarized
themselves with all the manuals and labeling of the Ahead 100.
Warnings include that the clinician must ensure that standard EEG practices are followed in the
collection of patient data.
SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR USE
Ahead 100 interpretation guidelines are based on the clinician’s initial diagnostic evaluation, the
subject’s age and the EEG results. The device user refers to the individual who prescribes device
use and performs the initial diagnostic assessment. In order to use the Ahead 100, the user
should be physicians who have familiarized themselves with all the manuals and labeling of the
Ahead 100. The clinician must perform a diagnostic evaluation per the standard of their practice
that includes the administration of the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS). The clinician’s evaluation
separates the patients into two groups: 1) patients with brain electrical activity consistent with
no structural brain injury visible on head CT, and 2) patients with brain electrical activity that
may be present in both patients with or without a structural brain injury visible on head CT. To
initiate recording EEG with the device, the clinician enters the GCS score for the patient. If the
GCS is less than 13, the Ahead 100 displays a warning statement that the device is intended to be
used in patients who clinically present with a GCS score of 13-15 and that the safety and
effectiveness of the Ahead 100 in patients with GCS scores less than 13 has not been established.
Prior to the presentation of results, the Ahead 100 displays a warning screen that states the
Ahead 100 has not been evaluated for safety or effectiveness in the diagnosis of traumatic brain
injury (TBI).
RISKS TO HEALTH
Table 3 below identifies the risks to health that may be associated with use of Brain Injury
Adjunctive Interpretive Electroencephalograph Assessment Aid and the measures necessary to
mitigate these risks.
Table 3: Identified Risks to Health and Mitigation Measures
Identified Risk Mitigation Measure
Adverse Tissue Reaction Biocompatibility
Labeling
Equipment Malfunction Leading to Injury to Electrical safety, thermal, and mechanical
User/Patient (shock, burn, or mechanical testing
failure) Electromagnetic Compatibility Testing
Labeling
Delay in Treatment or Unnecessary Performance testing
Treatment due to Hardware or Software Hardware and Software verification, validation
Failure and hazard analysis
Electromagnetic Compatibility Testing
De Novo Summary (DEN140025) Page 11Identified Risk Mitigation Measure
Technical Parameters
Labeling
False Result due to Incorrect Artifact Software verification and validation
Reduction Labeling
False Result due to Incorrect Placement of Clinical performance testing
Electrodes Labeling
False Result when a Brain Injury Adjunctive Clinical performance testing
Interpretive EEG Assessment Aid Impacts Device design characteristics
the Clinical Decision Labeling
Use Error Clinical performance testing
Labeling
SPECIAL CONTROLS:
In combination with the general controls of the FD&C Act, the Ahead 100 is subject to the
following special controls:
1. The technical parameters of the device, hardware and software, must be fully
characterized and include the following information:
a. Hardware specifications must be provided. Appropriate verification, validation
and hazard analysis must be performed.
b. Software, including any proprietary algorithm(s) used by the device to arrive at its
interpretation of the patient's condition, must be described in detail in the
Software Requirements Specification (SRS) and Software Design Specification
(SDS). Appropriate software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be
performed.
2. The device parts that contact the patient must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.
3. The device must be designed and tested for electrical safety, electromagnetic
compatibility (EMC), thermal and mechanical safety.
4. Clinical performance testing must demonstrate the accuracy, precision – repeatability and
reproducibility, of determining the EEG-based interpretation, including any specified
equivocal zones (cut-offs).
5. Clinical performance testing must demonstrate the ability of the device to function as an
assessment aid for the medical condition for which the device is indicated. Performance
measures must demonstrate device performance characteristics per the intended use in the
intended use environment. Performance measurements must include sensitivity,
specificity, positive predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value (NPV) with
respect to the study prevalence per the device intended use.
6. The device design must include safeguards to ensure appropriate clinical interpretation of
the device output (e.g., use in appropriate patient population, or for appropriate clinical
decision).
7. The labeling and training information must include:
a. A warning that the device is not to be used as a stand-alone diagnostic.
b. A detailed summary of the clinical performance testing, including any adverse
events and complications.
De Novo Summary (DEN140025) Page 12c. The intended use population and the intended use environment.
d. Any instructions technicians should convey to patients regarding the collection of
EEG data.
e. Information allowing clinicians to gauge clinical risk associated with integrating
the EEG interpretive assessment aid into their diagnostic pathway.
f. Information allowing clinicians to understand how to integrate the device output
into their diagnostic pathway when the device is unable to provide a classification
or final result.
BENEFIT/RISK DETERMINATION
The risks of the device are based on non-clinical data as well as data collected in the clinical
study described above. The major risk of the Ahead 100 device is a false negative result. A false
negative result may influence the clinical decision maker to not order a CT scan that would have
identified a structural injury. The risk of a false negative result may result in delaying treatment
for a potential structural brain injury that would require immediate life-saving treatment or
neurosurgery. A False Negative Rate of 21.5% was observed in the B-AHEAD II study.
In addition, a false positive result may influence the clinician to order a CT scan that is not
required. The risk of a false positive result may result in a potential increase in the incidence of
CT scans which can increase radiation exposure. A False Positive Rate of 51.4% was observed in
the B-AHEAD II study.
The probable benefits of the device are also based on non-clinical data as well as data collected
in the clinical study as described above. The device is intended as an aid in the evaluation of
patients who are being considered for a head CT scan following a mild traumatic brain injury.
The use of the Ahead 100 device may provide adjunctive information about patients when the
clinician does not deem it necessary to order a CT scan, adding confidence in the clinical
decision path. This has the potential to aid in the avoidance of unnecessary CT scanning through
increased confidence in the clinical decision to not scan a patient. Based on the B-AHEAD II
study results and some educated assumptions, we can approximate that about 160 patients in the
study may have benefitted from reduced CT exposure based on a negative device output. This
corresponds to a reduction of unnecessary CT exposure in (160/552) = 29% patients. The
effective radiation dose of a single head CT scan is ~2 mSv, or 8 months natural background
exposure.
As an adjunctive tool, the Ahead 100 can supplement the clinical assessment with additional
objective information to enhance the clinical decision-making process. While the Ahead 100
device is not indicated for use as a stand-alone diagnostic, and there are no non-imaging devices
approved for use as a stand-alone diagnostic for the assessment of brain injury, the reported
Ahead 100 specificity of 48% is greater than that of existing standard clinical tools, such as the
NOC and CCHR.
Additional factors to be considered in determining probable risks and benefits for the Ahead 100
include:
De Novo Summary (DEN140025) Page 13 Clinical performance data was completed via a multi-site, non-randomized, blinded
controlled clinical study. There were concerns related to the conduct and design of the
clinical study, specifically related to the amount of missing data as well as the application
and adjudication of the NOC for patients and the undefined procedure for determining
whether a CT scan was necessary.
 In an effort to mitigate the risks, particularly those associated with the potential false
negative device outputs, a number of statements have been included in the labeling, the
Ahead 100’s IFU, as well as in the user interface of the device itself:
o The Ahead 100 is indicated for use only in patients with GCS scores between 13-
15, corresponding to mild traumatic brain injuries
o The physician must input the patient’s GCS score into the Ahead 100 device prior
to initiating the test. This helps ensure that the patient has been evaluated
according to the GCS prior to use of the Ahead 100 device.
o Additional warnings are provided in both the device labeling as well as in the
device user interface that state that the intended use of the device is only in
patients with GCS scores between 13-15 and that safety and effectiveness of the
Ahead 100 device has not been evaluated in patients with GCS <13.
o The Ahead 100 device is not indicated for use as a stand-alone diagnostic and is
not indicated for use as a replacement for CT scanning.
o Complete results of the clinical study, as well as a chart that provides calculated
NPV and PPV results corresponding to a range of disease prevalences, a
discussion of the reference database to which the patient data is compared, and a
discussion of the missing data from the B-AHEAD II study is provided in the
device labeling to aid in the physician’s understanding of the clinical utility of the
Ahead 100 device.
In conclusion, given the available information above, the data support that for the use of the
Ahead 100 device as an adjunct to standard clinical practice to aid in the evaluation of patients
who are being considered for a head CT, who sustained a closed head injury within 24 hours,
clinically present as a mild traumatic brain injury with a Glasgow Coma Scale score (GCS) of
13-15, and are between the ages of 18-80 years, the probable benefits outweigh the probable
risks for the Ahead 100. The device provides benefits, and the risks can be mitigated by the use
of general and the identified special controls.
CONCLUSION
The de novo for the Ahead 100 is granted and the device is classified under the following:
Product Code: PIW
Device Type: Brain Injury Adjunctive Interpretive Electroencephalograph Assessment
Aid
Class: Class II
Regulation: 21 CFR 882.1450
De Novo Summary (DEN140025) Page 14