EVALUATION OF AUTOMATIC CLASS III DESIGNATION FOR
QuantX
DECISION SUMMARY
A. DEN Number
DEN170022
B. Purpose for Submission
De novo request for evaluation of automatic class III designation for QuantX.
C. Applicant
Quantitative Insights, Inc.
D. Proprietary and Established Names
QuantX
E. Regulatory Information
1. Regulation section
21 CFR 892.2060
2. Classification
Class II (Special Controls)
3. Product code
POK
4. Panel
90 (Radiology)
F. Indications for Use
1. Indications for Use
QuantX is a computer-aided diagnosis (CADx) software device used to assist
radiologists in the assessment and characterization of breast abnormalities using MR
image data. The software automatically registers images, and segments and
analyzes user-selected regions of interest (ROI). QuantX extracts image data from
the ROI to provide volumetric analysis and computer analytics based on
morphological and enhancement characteristics. These imaging (or radiomic)
features are then synthesized by an artificial intelligence algorithm into a single
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 1 of 24value, the QI score, which is analyzed relative to a database of reference
abnormalities with known ground truth.
QuantX is indicated for evaluation of patients presenting for high-risk screening,
diagnostic imaging workup, or evaluation of extent of known disease. Extent of
known disease refers to both the assessment of the boundary of a particular
abnormality as well as the assessment of the total disease burden in a particular
patient. In cases where multiple abnormalities are present, QuantX can be used to
assess each abnormality independently.
This device provides information that may be useful in the characterization of breast
abnormalities during image interpretation. For the QI score and component radiomic
features, the QuantX device provides comparative analysis to lesions with known
outcomes using an image atlas and histogram display format.
QuantX may also be used as an image viewer of multi-modality digital images,
including ultrasound and mammography. The software also includes tools that allow
users to measure and document images, and output in a structured report.
Limitations: QuantX is not intended for primary interpretation of digital mammography
images.
2. Special conditions for use statement(s)
For prescription use only
3. Warnings, precautions, and limitations
QuantX is not intended for primary interpretation of digital mammography images.
Please refer to the labeling for a more complete list of warnings, precautions and
contraindications.
G. Device Description
The device is a software-only post-processing system for patient breast images that
includes analysis of MR images, and viewing ultrasound and mammographic images.
MR images are acquired from a third-party acquisition device. The images can be
loaded into the QuantX device manually or automatically if connected to a DICOM-
compatible device. Users select and load the patient case to use the QuantX software
tools in the examination of the images. Different types of MR sequences (T1, DCE, T2,
DWI, etc.) can be viewed at the same time as mammography or ultrasound images from
the same patient.
QuantX includes image registration, and automated segmentation and analysis
functions, based on a seed point indicated by the user. Users can select a ROI manually
from the MR image, or use the automatic segmentation tool to obtain and accept a ROI,
for input to the QuantX analytics. The QuantX analytics display the QI Most Enhancing
Curve, the Average Enhancing Curve, and volume of the specified region.
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 2 of 24QuantX provides users the QI Score, based on the morphological and enhancement
characteristics of the region of interest. The QuantX package provides comparative
analysis for the QI score and its component element features to lesions with known
ground truth (either biopsy- proven diagnosis or minimum one year follow-up negative
scan for non-biopsied lesions) using an image atlas and histogram display format.
A user experienced with the significance of such data will be able to view and interpret
this additional information during the diagnosis of breast lesions.
Users may select from a variety of information sources to make the diagnosis. The key
features of the device are related categorization of lesions include the display of similar
cases and the histogram of known lesions for various analytic features (included the QI
score). The QI Score is not a “probability of malignancy,” but is intended for the
organization of an online atlas (reference database) provided to the user as the Similar
Case Database. The QI score is based on a machine learning algorithm, trained on a
subset of features calculated on a segmented lesions.
Figure 1: The User Manual that demonstrates how the device provides the 45 most
similar cases for the currently selected feature. The cases chosen from the Similar Case
Database are those with the smallest absolute difference for the selected lesion feature.
The 45 most similar cases are displayed for the user without any restrictions on
minimum or maximum similarity value.
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 3 of 24Figure 2: The histogram shows the distribution of lesions in the similar case database
and the score of the current lesion relative to the database (pink arrow).
In both of the above screenshots (Figures 1 and 2) red represents malignant and green
represents benign.
1. Image-based analytic features
Each of the features available in the software has been well-described in
mathematical language in the software documentation and labeling. A summary of
each is provided below:
QI Score™ Combines multiple lesion features to obtain a single measure for the
lesion and is used to find similar cases.
Max Uptake Is the maximum normalized uptake value of the lesion.
Time to Peak Is the post-contrast time at which enhancement is maximum.
Uptake Rate The uptake rate of contrast enhancement.
Washout Rate Is the rate at which contrast enhancements washes out of the lesion.
Curve Shape Index Is the difference of late and early enhancement relative to the
initial enhancement of the lesion.
Enhancement (E2) Is the normalized uptake at the mid timepoint (1 1/2–2
Mid
minutes post-contrast injection).
SER (Signal Enhancement Ratio) The ratio of initial enhancement to overall
enhancement.
Sphericity A measure of the conformity of the lesion to a spherical shape.
Irregularity The deviation of the lesion’s surface area from a spherical surface.
Effective radius Is the radius of a sphere having the same volume as the lesion.
Contrast A measure of the lesion’s local image variations.
Correlation A measure of the lesion’s image linearity.
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 4 of 24Diff Entropy A measure of the randomness of the difference of neighboring voxel
values.
Diff Variance A measure of variation of the difference of voxel values between voxel
pairs in the lesion.
Uniformity A measure of image homogeneity of the lesion.
Entropy A measure of the randomness of the voxel values in the lesion.
Homogeneity A measure of the local homogeneity of the lesion.
IMC1 A measure of non-linear voxel value dependence of the lesion.
IMC2 A measure of non-linear voxel value dependence of the lesion.
Max CC A measure of non-linear voxel value dependence to neighboring lesion
voxels.
Sum Average A measure of the overall brightness of the lesion.
Sum Entropy A measure of the randomness of the sum of the voxel values of
neighboring voxels in the lesion.
Sum Variance A measure of the spread of the distribution of the sum of the voxel
values of voxel pairs in the lesion.
Variance Is a measure of how spread out the distribution of voxel values in the
lesion are.
Margin Feature 1 Is the average gradient of the lesion’s margin.
Margin Feature 2 Is the standard deviation of the gradient of the lesion’s margin.
Variance of the Radial Gradient Histogram (vRGH) Is a measure of the variation
in the margin sharpness of the lesion.
Max Uptake Var Is the maximum of the variance in enhancement of the lesion.
Peak Timepoint Var Is the post-contrast time at which Max Uptake Var occurs.
Uptake Rate Var Is the rate at which the variance in enhancement increases to its
maximum.
Washout Rate Var Is the rate at which the variance in enhancement decreases from
its maximum.
Volume Is the volume of the lesion.
Surface Area Is the surface area of the lesion.
2. Similar Case Database
The similar case database included in the device was collected with a range of
acquisition parameters as detailed in the table below. A patient’s case was included
if the scan contained a lesion for which pathology had been obtained. There were no
explicit age or ethnicity inclusion or exclusion criteria. A summary description of the
cases in the database is detailed in the table below. Cases were included if 1) the
scan contained a lesion for which biopsy-proven truth had been obtained or for non-
biopsied benign lesions, clinical and radiology reports and a negative follow-up MRI
study at a minimum of 12 months and 2) lesion type had been determined by
multidisciplinary review.
Table 1: Description of the Similar Case Database included in the device labeling.
The summary of MR acquisition parameters and other descriptors of the cases are
included.
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 5 of 24GE Siemens
Manufacturer/Model Philips Achieva GE Signa Siemens Avanto
Field Strength 1.ST (359 lesions) 1.5T (14 lesions)
1.5T {66 lesions)
3.0T (70 lesions) 3.0T (34 lesions)
# Coil Channels 16 7,16 16
Acq. Plane Axial Coronal Axial
Pulse Sequence Enhanced Fast
3D gradient echo
Gradient Echo 3D FLASH 3D (fl3d1)
... (THRIVE)
u, (efgre3D)
QI
ti TR (ms) 5.4 (4.8 -7.5) 8.2 (5.0 - 11.2) 4.5 (4.5 - 5.0)
E...
cu TE (ms) 2.7 (2.4-4.6) 2.7 (2.1-4.2) 1.4 (1.4 - 1.5)
cu
Cl. Flip Angle (degrees) 10 {71 lesions)
C 10 {26 lesions)
0 12 {353 lesions)
·~;;;
15 (3 lesions)
12 (3 lesions) 10 (66 lesions)
':i 15 (19 lesions)
a- 20 (2 lesions)
V
ct Slice spacing (mm) 0.8 {70 lesions)
1.0 (356 lesions) 3.0 (48 lesions) 1.0 (66 lesions)
2.5 {3 lesions)
In-plane resolution
0.72 {0.54-0.97) 0.55 (0.39 - 1.05) 0. 73 (0. 71 - 0.83)
(mm)
# Postcontrast 5 3 3
Fat Suppression Yes Yes Yes
Parallel Imaging Yes Yes Yes
Date Range 11/2008 -12/2013 01/2009 -12/2013 08/2013 -12/2014
Total # Lesions 429 48 66
# Benign 190 27 41
C
0 Non biopsied 78 6 1
~a.
·.::: # Malignant 239 21 25
uV ,
QI DCIS 43 8 7
0
u, IDC 158 11 15
QI
u,
cu ILC 21 2 3
V
Mixed (IMC) 4 0 0
Unknown/Other 13 0 0
Age (± std dev} 54 ± 13 (25 - 85) so± 10 {37 - 75) 55 ± 13 (22 - 86)
3. Image analysis algorithm (Special Control 1.i.)
The QI Score is calculcated using a combined feature score algorithm based on
literature described in detail within the submission. Individual features, feature
selection process, algorithm training, algorithm inputs, major algorithm components,
algorithm outputs, and algorithm limitations are included in the device description,
software description, standalone performance and testing documentation, and
literature references.
Study limitation: Multiple candidate classifiers were evaluated on a dataset intended
to serve as an independent validation of standalone classifier performance. Although
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 6 of 24the resulting differences in performance between the candidate classifiers based on
AUC were small, we note that in this diagnostic device space, the effect size for
meaningful difference is also small. Small differences in AUC can translate into
significant clinical differences.
H. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced
NEMA PS 3.1 - 3.20 (2016), Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM)
set. FDA recognition number 12-300.
Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: Guidance for the Content of Premarket
Submissions for Software Contained in Medical Devices (issued May 11, 2005)
Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff: Computer-Assisted
Detection Devices Applied to Radiology Images and Radiology Device Data – Premarket
Notification [510(k)] Submissions (issued July 3, 2012)
I. Performance Characteristics
The device is a software-only device. Some common performance characteristics for
other device types are included below with a note that these characteristics are not
applicable to this type of software-only device.
1. Biocompatibility/Materials
Not applicable
2. Shelf Life/Sterility
Not applicable
3. Electromagnetic Compatibility and Electrical Safety
Not applicable
4. Magnetic Resonance (MR) Compatibility
Not applicable
Nonclinical performance data were provided to address the following areas:
5. Software (Special Control 1.v.)
The device is a software-only device.
The sponsor provided software documentation at a Moderate Level of Concern
according to the “Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software
Contained in Medical Devices” (May 11, 2005).
Version: 1.0.2022
Level of Concern: Moderate
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 7 of 24Software description:
The sponsor provided a general description of the features in the software
documentation and in the device description. The software runs on Windows or
OS X and hardware requirements are included in the User Manual. The
programming languages were described.
Device Hazard Analysis:
The device hazard analysis includes
- identification of the hazardous event
- severity of the hazard
- probability of the hazard
- cause(s) of the hazard
- method of control or mitigation
- corrective measures taken, including an explanation of the aspects of the
device design/requirements, that eliminate, reduce, or warn of a
hazardous event
- verification of the control implementation is traceable through the
enumerated traceability matrix
Software Requirements Specifications (SRS):
The SRS includes hardware requirements, programming language
requirements, interface requirements, functional requirements, performance
requirements, and safety requirements. Performance and functional
requirements are described within the Quantitative Insights QuantX Software
Device – Software Requirements Specification document. High-level
requirements are also included in the SRS.
Functional requirements are described in greater detail in individual SRS
references for specific features (such as kinetic colormap, ADC calculation,
i MR l i f i d i il d b )
Architecture Design Chart:
The architecture design chart provides the software overview and includes flow
diagrams representative of process flow for various features of the QuantX
software.
Software Design Specifications (SDS):
Detailed non-functional requirements are included in the SRS that pertain to the
software design such as data structure and behavior requirements.
The SDS include:
- an introduction
- system overview
- design map, architecture design
- database schema
- high level design
- low level design
- user interface design
Some of the SDS elements such as implementation were also included within
the SRS. Low level design documents were included for the graphical user
interface (GUI), data, database, and MR analysis.
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 8 of 24Traceability Analysis/Matrix:
A series of traceability tables link enumerated requirements, hazards, and test
results.
Software Development Environment:
The software development environment includes a summary of the software
development life cycle plan and the processes that are in place to manage the
various life cycle activities.
Verification & Validation Testing:
The validation and system level verifications procedures are based upon the
requirements with clearly defined test procedures and pass/fail criteria. All tests
passed. Use case validation results were provided.
Unit level test procedures, actual, and expected results are included for specific
feature requirements. Enumerated test results were included for each test.
V&V testing included an assessment of software controls included to confirm the
appropriate image type and the image characteristics were in the case prior to
processing the images.
Revision level history:
Development from alpha version through the version used in the reader study is
included with a description of the changes between versions and dates.
Unresolved anomalies:
Unresolved anomalies are described with the problem, impact on device
performance and plans for correcting the problem.
Cybersecurity
The cybersecurity documentation is consistent with the recommendations for
information that should be included in premarket submissions outlined in the FDA
guidance document Content of Premarket Submissions for Management of
Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug
Administration Staff (issued October 2, 2014). Information related to cybersecurity
reviewed included:
a. Hazard analysis related to cybersecurity risks,
b. Traceability documentation linking cybersecurity controls to risks considered,
c. Summary plan for validating software updates and patches throughout the
lifecycle of the medical device,
d. Summary describing controls in place to ensure that the medical device will
maintain its integrity, and
e. Device instructions for use and product specifications related to
recommended cybersecurity controls appropriate for the intended use of the
device.
The software documentation is acceptable.
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 9 of 246. Standalone performance testing protocols and results (Special Control 1.iv.)
The sponsor provided standalone performance testing and results of the QI Score in
distinguishing between the benign and malignant cases. The QI score is a
combination of multiple lesion features, each calculated after lesion segmentation.
a. Segmentation in the standalone testing
For the included lesions, an initial seed point was selected by referring to the
radiology report from the exam to obtain the approximate location of the
lesion. In practice, the radiologist selects the seed point location; however,
the segmentation algorithm includes dependency on the seed point location.
The automatic lesion segmentation was performed using the QuantX
software without any manual correction in the standalone performance
assessment.
b. Case distribution in the standalone testing
For the similar case database
Cases were collected were retrospectively collected over a 7-year span
(2008-2014) of dynamic contrast enhanced (DCE) breast MRI studies from
the University of Chicago Medical Center, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer
Center, and the X-Ray Associates of New Mexico. The dataset included a
total of 652 lesions, 314 benign and 338 malignant.
Case inclusion criteria:
1. The lesion reported in a radiology report
2. The lesion not having a previous biopsy/excision that removed a large
portion of the lesion
3. The scan contained a lesion for which biopsy-proven truth had been
obtained and pathological truth for the lesion, or for non-biopsied
benign lesions, clinical and radiology reports and a negative follow-up
MRI study at a minimum of 12 months and lesion type had been
determined by multidisciplinary review.
Cases were included from multiple MR system manufacturers and field
strengths. The cases used in the standalone testing are the same as those
included in the similar case database (see Table 1 for more details).
For the reader study test database
Please refer to the case information under Section J. Summary of Clinical
Information for details.
c. Testing and results
Similar Case Database
A 0.632 bootstrap method was used to evaluate the performance of the QI
Score on the data included Similar Case Database. The area under the curve
(AUC) was calculated using the trapezoidal method, with the confidence
interval estimated empirically using bootstrap results.
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 10 of 24Overall AUC performance based on the bootstrap method was 0.86 ± 0.02
(mean ± standard error)
Study limitation: The standalone study that used the Similar Case Database
(i.e., training database) cannot be considered an independent validation
study, and consequently results from such study cannot be considered
confirmatory evidence. However, this standalone assessment does contain
cases from important cohorts for the intended use population.
Reader study testing database
Overall AUC performance based on the reader study testing database using
the automated segmentation without manual input was 0.75 ± 0.05 (mean ±
standard error).
Overall AUC performance based on the reader study testing database using
the segmentation from the clinical reader study (i.e., including variability of
different seed point locations) was 0.71 ± 0.05 (mean ± standard error).
Study limitation: The standalone studies that used the reader study testing
dataset included ‘challenge cases’ as defined in the reader study protocol, so
it is expected that the test database AUCs may be less than the bootstrap
AUCs and not precisely reflect expected clinical performance. So, while these
results can be considered independent validation, the performance may not
adequately characterize the performance of the device for the intended use
population.
7. Animal and/or Cadaver testing
None provided.
J. Summary of Clinical Information
A multiple reader, multiple case (MRMC) clinical study including a sequential reading
design was used to determine the impact on Reader Performance in diagnosing breast
cancer, as characterized by the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC)
curve (AUC), when QuantX is used during breast MRI interpretation (SECOND READ),
compared with conventional MRI interpretation without the use of QuantX (FIRST
READ).
This study tested the following hypothesis regarding use of QuantX in improving reader
performance for the diagnosis of breast cancer. The hypothesis is: diagnostic
performance, as characterized by the area under the receiver operating characteristic
(ROC) curve (AUC), of qualified interpreting radiologists (readers) improves (i.e., (cid:507)AUC
= [AUC – AUC ] > 0) when using QuantX as an aid for interpretation
SECOND READ FIRST READ
(SECOND READ), compared with when not using QuantX for interpretation (FIRST
READ).
The FIRST READ modality of image interpretation consisted of the interpretation of
diagnostic breast MR images using a set of features that are equivalent to those of
commercially available computer-aided evaluation software products. These systems
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 11 of 24display color maps and kinetic curves of contrast enhancement, noting whether within
the first minute or so the lesion has enhanced pass some threshold (e.g., 50%, or 100%,
of the initial value) set by the user, and whether the subsequent patterns of
enhancement represent increasing, plateau, or decreasing (i.e., washout).
The SECOND READ modality of image interpretation consisted of the interpretation of
diagnostic breast MR images, displayed on the QuantX interface with all of the QuantX
functionality. The available functionality of QuantX (i.e., the CADx output) during the
SECOND READ interpretation included: the conventional CAE kinetic information, a QI
Score, a volumetric analysis, a similar case database, and additional values quantifying
various morphological and kinetic features. With QuantX, the user can choose to view
several feature values/outputs (examples listed below) in addition to color maps and
kinetic curves for the case being read, as well as images presented within the similar
case database.
The QuantX system was used in both the FIRST READ and SECOND READ workflow
by controlling the functionality available to the reader during specific points in the study.
1. Primary endpoint (Special Control 1.ii. and 1.iii.)
The primary endpoint was the expected difference in the AUC between the FIRST
READ image interpretation and the SECOND READ image interpretation. These
ROC curves were estimated from the readers’ likelihood-of-malignancy responses.
Statistical estimation of the primary endpoint was made by using the Dorfman-
Berbaum-Metz method of MRMC analysis.
(cid:507)AUC = [AUC – AUC ]
SECOND READ FIRST READ
H : (cid:507)AUC = 0
0
H : (cid:507)AUC > 0 [AUC – AUC ]
1 SECOND READ FIRST READ
Rejection of the null hypothesis was with respect to t(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:89)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:88)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:302) = 0.05.
Note: The AUC can be interpreted as the average sensitivity over all possible
specificities. If the area under the ROC curve is greater for diagnostic A than for
diagnostic B, and the two curves do not cross, then diagnostic A is clearly superior
diagnostic B. If the curves cross, then relative performance is not clear over the
entire range of operating points.
2. Secondary analyses
Secondary analyses consist of estimation of the expected differences in
sensitivity and the expected differences in specificity, both between the FIRST
READ image interpretation and the SECOND READ image interpretation.
Sensitivity and specificity were calculated from the readers’ responses for the 7-
point BI-RADS assessment categories. Two different cut points were used as the
definition for a positive call for cancer diagnosis:
1) a BI-RADS assessment of 4a or higher (i.e., 4a, 4b, 4c, and 5) defines a
positive call for cancer diagnosis and, conversely, a BI-RADS assessment
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 12 of 24of 3 or lower (i.e., 3, 2, and 1) defines a negative call for cancer diagnosis;
and
2) a BI-RADS assessment of 3 or higher (i.e., 3, 4a, 4b, 4c, and 5) defines a
positive call for cancer diagnosis and, conversely, a BI-RADS assessment
of 2 or lower (i.e., 2 and 1) defines a negative call for cancer diagnosis.
This sensitivity and specificity analyses are included to ensure there is not an
unintended reduction in either sensitivity or specificity. Statistical estimation of
the uncertainties in the expected differences in sensitivity and specificity was
made by using the method of bootstrapping on the reader data (with appropriate
sampling of both readers and cases), together with estimated 95% CIs. These
endpoints were not adjusted for multiplicity, but may be considered descriptive
results.
3. Case inclusion for the reader study testing dataset (Special Control 1.ii. and 1.iv.)
The Reference Standard (Ground Truth) for assessment of malignancy was used as
an objective standard against which the rating data obtained from the readers was
analyzed. Ground truth for the biopsied cancers and biopsied non-cancers was
directly from the associated final pathology reports. Ground truth for the non-biopsied
non-cancers was from clinical and radiology reports and a negative follow-up MRI
study at a minimum of 12 months.
Study limitation: Cases determined to be biopsy benign lacked 1-year follow-up.
Instead, the sponsor provided documentation that the benign result is concordant
with the suspicious imaging appearance that prompted the biopsy. We defined
concordance as a determination that a tissue biopsy result is compatible with (i.e., is
a plausible explanation for) the abnormal pre-biopsy imaging appearance which
prompted the performance of the biopsy.
Anonymized breast imaging cases were retrospectively collected by the sponsor
from three different institutions, an academic breast imaging center, a dedicated
cancer imaging center and a community based imaging center. Breast MR images
were collected representing cancers (including invasive and DCIS) and non-cancers
(including benign lesions and non-biopsied suspect regions), and included a varying
distribution of lesion descriptors according to the BIRADS lexicon for MRI. All cases
in the reader study testing data were independent from the QuantX similar case
database.
All the cases included in the study satisfied the indications for breast MRI according
to the ACR practice guidelines for CE-MRI of the breast, revised 2013. Cases in the
reader study/evaluation dataset included MR cases from clinical practice where an
abnormality was detected, thus requiring workup. These cases were accrued from
patients that presented for clinical indications such as high-risk screening (38%),
diagnostic imaging workup (including follow-up diagnostic imaging workup) (35%), or
evaluation of extent of known disease (27%). Several case selection criteria and
quality control mechanisms were applied. Cases were included:
1) if evaluable T2 and a minimum of 2 post-contrast DCE MR image sets were
available for the diagnostic interpretation,
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 13 of 242) for non-cancer cases, if negative biopsy or follow-up MRI study at a minimum
of 12 months was negative,
3) for cancer cases, if positive biopsy, and case meets the cancer subtype
requirements, and
4) if source records were available for clinical status verification purposes.
Cases were excluded if cases demonstrated administrative or technical errors, such
as exam incomplete or cases not meeting the minimum acquisition image quality
requirements per the QuantX User Manual.
A total of 111 breast MR images were included, with a total of 54 cancer and 57 non-
cancerous breast lesions (i.e., an enriched set). Of the non-cancer lesions, 40 were
biopsied non-cancers and 17 were non-biopsied non-cancers. Cases were not
collected consecutively but rather collected to satisfy the distribution of cases
according to scanner, vendor, cancer subtype, and benign cases. Sixty-three cases
with multiple lesions were included in the reader study; however, the study used one
lesion per case in order to enable ROC analysis.
Note: The dataset was enriched for the more challenging cases. The final study case
distribution included a total of 64 cases that were rated by the source institution as
BIRADS 3 or 4. Interval cancer cases (i.e., cases where current diagnosis is positive
and where the previous diagnosis was negative) were neither explicitly included nor
excluded.
Lesion classification
Philips Siemens GE GE
1.5T 3T 1.5T 1.5T 3T Totals
02/2009- 05/2010- 10/2013- 01/2009-
Date Range 03/2011
01/2014 12/2013 12/2014 09/2013
Total# Cases 24 _ 35 __ 27 _ 1 24 111
,_ ,_ , _, -- -
# Benign 11 _ 19 __ 15 _ 1 11 57
C ,_ ,_ , _, -- -
0
·,.:; Biopsied 2 12 15 1 10 40
-a~.
1~ -1~ - 1~ -1~ -- -
u V , Non-biopsied ,_ 9 _, _ 7 _, _ 0 _,_ 0 -- 1 - 17
C (1 l / # Malignant ,_ 13 _ ,_ 16 _ , _ 12 _, _ 0 -- 13 - 54
V,
( V 1 , / DCIS ,_ 3 _ ,_ 3 _ , _ 4 _, _ 0 -- 3 - 13
un: ,
IDC 10 11 6 0 8 35
1~ -1~ - 1~ -1~ -- -
ILC 0 2 2 0 1 5
,_ - ,_ - ,_ _,_ -- - -
Other 0 0 0 0 1 1
Age (mean ± 1 SD) so± 13 52 ± 15 58 ± 13 52 48 ± 11 52 ± 13
Data acquisition parameters for the reader study testing database
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 14 of 24P3 s Gt.5 G3
Manufacturer /Model Philips Achieva Philips Achieva Siemens Avanto GE Signa GE Signa HDx
Field Strength 1.5T 3T 1.5T 1.5T 3T
# Coil Channels 16 16 16 16 7,16
Acq. Plane Axial Axial Axial Sagittal Sagittal
Enhanced Fast Enhanced Fast
3D gradient 3D gradient FLASH 3D
Pulse Sequence Gradient Echo Gradient Echo
echo (THRIVE) echo (THRIVE) (f13d1)
3D (efgre3D) 3D ( efgre3D)
TR (ms) 5.5 (5.4-5.6) 4.8 (4.6-5.0) 4.5 ( 4.5-5.0) 6.6 9.6 (4.5-11)
TE (ms) 2.7 (2.7-2.7) 2.4 (2.3-2.5) 1.4 (1.4-1.5) 4.2 2.1 (2.1-2.3)
Flip Angle 10 0 35 27 1 4
(degrees) 12 23 0 0 0 1
[#of cases] 15 1 0 0 0 19
Slice spacing (mm) 0.8: 3 1.0: 24
0.8 3 3
[:#of cases] 1.0: 21 1.2: 3
In-plane resolution
0.72 (0.56-0.79) 0.65 (0.56-0.79) 0.75 (0.71-0.83) 0.43 0.43 (0.39-0.51)
(mm) (range)
# Postcontrast 5,6 4,5 3 3 3
Fat Suppression Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Parallel Imaging Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Study limitation: 13 cases were re-used from a previous reader study of a similar
device. This data re-use might have biased the study results.
4. Reader selection criteria (Special Control 1.ii.)
Readers were recruited from practices in academia and private practice. The readers
satisfied minimum qualifications and experience requirements in interpreting breast
MRI.
The inclusion criteria for all readers in the study were as follows:
(cid:120) Signed financial disclosures
(cid:120) Signed reader study agreement, including non-disclosure
(cid:120) Informed consent
(cid:120) Current medical license
(cid:120) American Board of Radiology or equivalent certification
(cid:120) Interpreting radiologist with at least 1 year of breast MRI interpretation
experience (including a breast imaging fellowship, if applicable)
(cid:120) Fellowship-trained in breast imaging or 2 years’ experience in breast imaging
(cid:120) Currently qualified as a Mammography interpreting physician under MQSA
(cid:120) Successful training on the use of study software
5. Pre-specified analysis plan (Special Control 1.ii.)
Assumptions used to estimate the number of cases and readers included an AUC of
0.80-0.84, an expected difference in AUC of 0.03 to 0.05, and a 1:1 prevalence
(cancers to noncancers).
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 15 of 24For each reader, the likelihood of malignancy (LOMs) obtained from all study cases
were used to estimate two ROC curves: one for the FIRST READ, and one for the
SECOND READ, conditions. The respective estimated AUC values and standard
errors are reported. The average AUC values across all readers and the associated
standard errors were estimated by using the Dorfman-Berbaum-Metz ANOVA after
jackknife (DBM) method. Proper-binormal AUC estimates and non-parametric
(trapezoidal) AUC estimates were obtained. From the output of the DBM analysis,
two-tailed p-values and 95% CIs for estimated AUC- value differences between the
SECOND READ and FIRST READ conditions were obtained.
For the secondary analyses, statistical estimation of the differences in sensitivity and
in specificity was made by using the method of bootstrapping on the reader data,
together with estimated 95% CIs.
Study limitation: The Reader Study Protocol indicated that both non-parametric
(trapezoidal) and proper-binormal AUC estimates would be obtained, but the study
protocol did not specify which of the two methods would be considered definitive in
case of disagreement for the primary analysis.
6. Reader training (Special Control 1.ii.)
Prior to initiation of the MRMC study, all Readers met the Reader Qualification
criteria, gave informed consent, and were trained, in (a) the use of QuantX in breast
MRI interpretation (functionality and “knobs”), (b) the 7-point forced BI-RADS, and (c)
the role and use of the reader rating data (LOM) in ROC analysis.
Following training, a short proficiency test was given to the readers. The proficiency
test was only used as a mechanism to ensure the readers paid attention during the
training and were sufficiently proficient with the study software to proceed with the
study. This proficiency assessment was only with respect to the software functions
and an understanding of the reader study protocol. It in no way sought to assess
their proficiency in diagnosis. All of the study readers successfully completed the
proficiency test. Per study protocol, no readers were excluded from the study based
on the results of the proficiency test.
Study limitation: Training materials included an optimistic assessment of the device
performance that may have biased the readers in favor of the device. In other words,
readers in the study were provided information about QuantX standalone
performance results that may not represent true standalone performance (estimates
may be biased). Estimates of performance included in training materials may
influence reader performance; however, in this instance, it is not possible to
definitively predict the effect of this bias.
7. Data collection (Special Control 1.ii.)
Readers interpreted a single lesion in each case that was identified to them as lesion
location information. For each lesion, readers clicked on the lesion that invoked the
software automated lesion segmentation algorithm and were provided information for
that lesion consistent with the FIRST READ or SECOND READ condition (described
above).
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 16 of 24The readers were directed to report their estimate of the likelihood of malignancy and
their opinion on BI-RADS final assessment for only the study-designated lesion.
Such an arrangement allowed the readers to read cases that they would encounter
in clinical practice, while still allowing for ROC analysis. The "QI score" depends to
some extent on the lesion seed point that a reader selects because the lesion
segmentation results can be affected by the choice of this seed point, which in turn
could affect the "QI score."
For this sequential reader study, the reader first interprets and scores the case under
the FIRST READ interpretation condition, after which the reader's FIRST READ
responses are immediately locked. Then the CADx output becomes available to the
reader, and then the reader interprets and scores the case under the SECOND
READ interpretation condition, after which the reader's SECOND READ responses
are immediately locked.
The order in which the cases were interpreted was randomized uniquely for each
reader in order to minimize potential bias due to case-presentation order. Each
reader read all cases in both the FIRST READ and SECOND READ interpretation
conditions.
Note: In this study, there were no prior images available for comparison and no
clinical information of patient history was provided.
8. MRMC study results (Special Control 1.iii.)
A total of 19 readers completed the study of 111 breast MR cases. Readers included
a mix from private practice and academia. Eight completed a breast imaging
fellowship.
Table 1. Reader experience
Years experience Breast imaging Breast MRI
0 – 5 6 8
5 – 10 4 7
Greater than 10 9 4
a. Primary endpoint analysis
Table 2. MRMC proper-binormal estimate of summary modality-specific area under
the ROC curve (AUC)
ty-specific AUC AUC Standard Error 95%(1 P-value
0.7055 0.0308 [0.6450, 0.7660]
0.7575 0.0350 [0.6889, 0.8261]
AUC2nd read - AUC1st read 0.0520 0.0254 [0.0022, 0.1018] 0.0408
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 17 of 24Table 3. MRMC estimate of summary modality-specific trapezoidal area under the
ROC curve (AUC)
lity-specific AUC AUC Standard Error 95%(1 P-
value
AUC1stread 0.7090 0.0305 (0.6491, 0.7689]
AUC2ndread 0.7577 0.0352 (0.6887, 0.8268]
AUC2ndread -AUC1stread 0.0487 0.0254 (-0.0011, 0.0985] 0.0550
The results of the reader study indicate that the study marginally met the primary
endpoint.
b. Secondary analyses (Special Control 1.iii.)
Two sets of sensitivity and specificity calculations were conducted with two different
criteria for a positive call (by the readers). One of these criteria was with BI-RADS 3
as the cut-(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:17)(cid:72)(cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:149)(cid:3)(cid:22)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:17)(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:44)-
RADS 4a as the cut-(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:17)(cid:72)(cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:149)(cid:3)(cid:23)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:17)
Table 4. Sensitivity and specificity for BI-RADS cut-point of 3 (cid:11)(cid:149)(cid:22)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:68)
positive call)
1st READ 2nd READ 2nd READ – 1st READ
Difference 95% CI
Sensivity 90.4 94.2 3.8 [0.8, 7.4]
Specificity 28.6 27.6 -1.0 [-6.5, 4.3]
Table 5. Sensitivity and specificity for BI-RADS cut-point of 4a (cid:11)(cid:149)(cid:23)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:68)
positive call)
1st READ 2nd READ 2nd READ – 1st READ
Difference 95% CI
Sensitivity 79.7 84.8 5.1 [-0.9, 10.9]
Specificity 52.2 51.7 -0.5 [-7.3, 6.0]
Note that because a detailed, formal hypothesis testing plan for sensitivity and
specificity was not pre-specified, these results are considered descriptive.
c. Additional analyses (Special Control 1.iii.)
Individual reader ROC plots were evaluated for consistency between the fit of the
proper-binormal ROC plot and the nonparametric ROC plots. The sponsor provided
several supplemental analyses not pre-specified in the study protocol including
analysis by site/MR system manufacturer, analysis by magnetic field strength, kappa
analysis of reader agreement, and reader QI score variability. These analyses were
intended to provide a qualitative assessment of potential trends in the data, evaluate
the robustness of the study, and inform labeling. Note that caution should be
exercised in interpreting these types of results.
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 18 of 249. Other notes
One additional reader participated in the study. However, this reader interpreted the
LOM as "confidence in his/her diagnostic decision" rather than "likelihood of
malignancy," which consequently produced estimated ROC curves that resemble the
"chance" line with AUC values of approximately 0.5. It is obvious that those LOM
data are not appropriate for ROC analysis. In consultation with the FDA review team,
the study principle investigator, and the sponsor, the FDA review team agreed that it
is appropriate to exclude the data of this reader from the analysis of the study
results.
10. Pediatric Extrapolation
In this de novo request, existing clinical data were not leveraged to support the use
of the device in a pediatric patient population.
K. Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 801, including
21 CFR Part 801.109 for prescription devices, and the special controls for this device
type. The QuantX MRI User Manual provides the detailed instructions for use (Special
Control 2.vii.). Other elements of labeling for QuantX related to the special controls for
labeling of this device type are noted below.
1. Indicated patient population (Special Control 2.i.)
QuantX is indicated for evaluation of the assessment and characterization of breast
abnormalities from MRI data in patients presenting for high-risk screening, diagnostic
imaging workup, or evaluation of extent of known disease.
2. Intended reading protocol (Special Control 2.ii.)
The User Manual includes instructions for opening a new case, lesion segmentation
(manual and automatic), viewing information such as features for the selected lesion and
comparison to lesions in the similar case database (including histograms), information
about the data provided, and reporting.
3. Intended user and recommended training (Special Control 2.iii.)
The indications for use note that QuantX is a computer-aided diagnosis (CADx) software
device used to assist radiologists.
Quantitative Insights recommends that new users of the QuantX software successfully
complete appropriate training courses in both the use of the software for the particular
types of cases they will be reading as well as in the broader related areas of multi-
modality breast image diagnosis using advanced visualization and analysis tools.
Quantitative Insights also recommends that each site using the QuantX platform
maintain a certification program for all new users of the software and all Radiologists
who are new to multimodality breast imaging using advanced visualization and analysis
tools.
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 19 of 244. Device inputs and outputs(Special Control 2.iv.)
The User Manual describes appropriate image datasets for input and analysis. The User
Manual includes instructions for the Report Generation tools and other tools that may be
used to characterize lesions.
5. Compatible imaging hardware and imaging protocols (Special Control 2.v.)
Recommended image MR acquisition parameters are included in the labeling with along
with ranges of acceptable criteria for each specified acquisition parameter.
6. Warnings, precautions, and limitations incluing situations in which the device may fail
or may not operate at the expected performance level (Special Control 2.vi.)
Warnings and cautions related to the potential device failure or low performance are
included in the User Manual including comments on image quality, patient population,
and segmentation accuracy. Warnings and cautions related to the device are included in
the User Manual. Information about the Similar Case Database and cases used in the
MRMC study provided in labeling also provide information to users about potential
limitations of the device related to specific subpopulations.
7. Summary of the performance testing (Special Control 2.viii.)
The User Manual contains summary information about the standalone performance and
MRMC study test methods, dataset characteristics, results, and sub-analyses (including
MR system manufacturer).
L. Identified Risks to Health and Mitigation Measures
Identified Risks to Health Mitigation Measures
Incorrect lesion(s) characterization Certain design verification and
leading to false positive results may validation activities identified in special
result in incorrect patient management control (1)
with possible adverse effects such as Certain labeling information identified in
unnecessary treatment, unnecessary special control (2)
additional medical imaging and/or
unnecessary additional diagnostic
workup such as biopsy.
Incorrect lesion(s) characterization Certain design verification and
leading to false negative results may validation activities identified in special
lead to complications, including control (1)
incorrect diagnosis and delay in disease Certain labeling information identified in
management. special control (2)
The device could be misused to analyze Certain design verification and
images from an unintended patient validation activities identified in special
population or on images acquired with control (1)
incompatible imaging hardware or Certain labeling information identified in
incompatible image acquisition special control (2)
parameters, leading to inappropriate
diagnostic information being displayed
to the user.
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 20 of 24Device failure could lead to the absence Certain design verification and
of results, delay of results or incorrect validation activities identified in special
results, which could likewise lead to control (1)
inaccurate patient assessment. Certain labeling information identified in
special control (2)
M. Benefit/Risk Analysis
Summary
Summary of the This device provides a systematic automated analysis of breast MRI to
Benefit(s) assist users in characterizing breast lesions as a concurrent read of
breast MRI. The clinical MRMC study demonstrated a marginally
statistically significant improvement in reader performance diagnosing
breast cancer when QuantX is used during breast MRI interpretation
compared with conventional MRI interpretation without the use of
QuantX. The systematic automated analysis may also provide an
increased degree of consistency to the reader analysis. The improved
diagnostic accuracy and consistency in analysis may improve the
performance of some users. Therefore, an improved, more uniform
interpretation may be expected across some radiology practices using
the device.
Summary of the There are minimal potential risks associated with the use of the
Risk(s) device. The risks include:
(cid:120) Incorrect lesion(s) characterization leading to false positive
results may result in incorrect patient management with
possible adverse effects such as, unnecessary additional
medical imaging and/or unnecessary additional diagnostic
workup such as biopsy. Less likely, but possible would be
unnecessary treatment.
(cid:120) Incorrect lesion(s) characterization leading to false negative
results may lead to complications, including incorrect diagnosis
and delay in disease management.
(cid:120) The device could be misused to analyze images from an
unintended patient population or on images acquired with
incompatible imaging hardware or incompatible image
acquisition parameters, leading to inappropriate diagnostic
information being displayed to the user.
(cid:120) Device failure could lead to the absence of results, delay of
results or incorrect results, which could likewise lead to
inaccurate patient assessment.
However, based on the performance data and the application of
mitigating measures (general controls and special controls established
for this device type), use of the device is unlikely to decrease
diagnostic performance of the user and possible misuse of the device
does not present additional risks compared with misuse of other types
of radiological image processing devices.
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 21 of 24Summary of Other The study was enriched and individual readers in practice may not
Factors experience a significant improvement in diagnosing breast cancer
lesions.
Conclusions Yes, the probable benefits outweigh the probable risks, given the
Do the probable combination of required general controls and the special controls
benefits outweigh established for this device. The Special Controls will sufficiently assist
the probable risks? in managing risks associated with incorrect lesion(s) characterization,
application of the device results to the wrong patient population,
analysis of incompatible images, and/or device failure by insuring
proper performance and use of the device.
By providing a systematic automated analysis of a multiple factors in
reviewing breast MRI lesions, the device may marginally improve
diagnostic performance and consistency in evaluating a multitude of
clinical factors. The QuantX analytics calculate the morphological and
enhancement characteristics of a breast lesion the QuantX package
uses pattern recognition techniques and displays similar lesions from
a fixed database of biopsy-proven non-cancer and cancer. A user will
be able to view and interpret the lesion characteristics and similar
cases during their diagnosis of a patient’s breast lesions.
By demonstrating an ability to assist users in the classification of
breast MRI lesions as BIRADS 2, or 3 or 4a, the device may provide
improved diagnostic accuracy as assessed by an improvement in
AUC. In particular, secondary analyses suggest improved sensitivity
based on BI-RADS 3 as the cut-point without decreased specificity for
some readers.
The device provides information that may be useful in the
characterization of breast abnormalities, but does not replace the
physician. The physician determines the diagnosis and the information
provided by the device is unlikely to decrease diagnostic performance
of the user. Not all users may experience a substantial improvement in
diagnostic performance based on the use of the device. However, the
device is not likely to lead to a substantial decline in reader
performance either.
Therefore, given the available information concerning the benefits,
risks, and supporting data; the probable benefits outweigh the
probable risks, given the combination of required general controls and
special controls established for this device.
Patient Perspectives
This submission did not include specific information on patient perspectives for this device.
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 22 of 24N. Conclusion
The information provided in this de novo submission is sufficient to classify this device into class
II under regulation 21 CFR 892.2060.
FDA believes that stated special controls, in combination with the applicable general controls,
provide a reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device type. The device
is classified under the following:
Product Code: P OK
Device Type: Radiological computer-assisted diagnostic (CADx) software for lesions
suspicious for cancer
Class: II (special controls)
Regulation: 21 CFR 892.2060
(a) Identification: A radiological computer-assisted diagnostic (CADx) software for
lesions suspicious for cancer is an image processing prescription device intended to
aid in the characterization of lesions as suspicious for cancer identified on acquired
medical images such as magnetic resonance, mammography, radiography, or
computed tomography. The device characterizes lesions based on features or
information extracted from the images and provides information about the lesion(s) to
the user. Diagnostic and patient management decisions are made by the clinical
user.
(b) Classification: Class II (special controls). A radiological computer-assisted diagnostic
(CADx) software for lesions suspicious for cancer must comply with the following
special controls:
1. Design verification and validation must include:
i. A detailed description of the image analysis algorithms including, but not
limited to, a detailed description of the algorithm inputs and outputs, each
major component or block, and algorithm limitations.
ii. A detailed description of pre-specified performance testing protocols and
dataset(s) used to assess whether the device will improve reader
performance as intended.
iii. Results from performance testing protocols that demonstrate that the
device improves reader performance in the intended use population when
used in accordance with the instructions for use. The performance
assessment must be based on appropriate diagnostic accuracy measures
(e.g., receiver operator characteristic plot, sensitivity, specificity,
predictive value, and diagnostic likelihood ratio). The test dataset must
contain sufficient numbers of cases from important cohorts (e.g., subsets
defined by clinically relevant confounders, effect modifiers, concomitant
diseases, and subsets defined by image acquisition characteristics) such
that the performance estimates and confidence intervals of the device for
these individual subsets can be characterized for the intended use
population and imaging equipment.
iv. Standalone performance testing protocols and results of the device.
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 23 of 24v. Appropriate software documentation (e.g., device hazard analysis;
software requirements specification document; software design
specification document; traceability analysis; description of verification
and validation activities including system level test protocol, pass/fail
criteria, results, and cybersecurity).
2. Labeling must include:
i. A detailed description of the patient population for which the device is
indicated for use.
ii. A detailed description of the intended reading protocol.
iii. A detailed description of the intended user and recommended user
training.
iv. A detailed description of the device inputs and outputs.
v. A detailed description of compatible imaging hardware and imaging
protocols.
vi. Warnings, precautions, and limitations, including situations in which the
device may fail or may not operate at its expected performance level
(e.g., poor image quality or for certain subpopulations), as applicable.
vii. Detailed instructions for use.
viii. A detailed summary of the performance testing, including: test methods,
dataset characteristics, results, and a summary of sub-analyses on case
distributions stratified by relevant confounders (e.g., lesion and organ
characteristics, disease stages, and imaging equipment).
De Novo Summary DEN170022 Page 24 of 24