EVALUATION OF AUTOMATIC CLASS III DESIGNATION FOR
Paige Prostate
DECISION SUMMARY
A. DEN Number:
DEN200080
B. Purpose for Submission:
De Novo request for evaluation of automatic class III designation for the Paige Prostate
C. Measurands:
Not applicable
D. Type of Test:
Software device to identify digital histopathology images of prostate needle biopsies that are
suspicious for cancer and to localize a focus with the highest probability for cancer
E. Applicant:
Paige.AI, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Paige Prostate
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.3750
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
QPN
4. Panel:
88 – PATHOLOGYH. Indications for use:
1. Indications for use:
Paige Prostate is a software only device intended to assist pathologists in the detection of
foci that are suspicious for cancer during the review of scanned whole slide images (WSI)
from prostate needle biopsies prepared from hematoxylin & eosin (H&E) stained formalin-
fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue. After initial diagnostic review of the WSI by the
pathologist, if Paige Prostate detects tissue morphology suspicious for cancer, it provides
coordinates (X,Y) on a single location on the image with the highest likelihood of having
cancer for further review by the pathologist.
Paige Prostate is intended to be used with slide images digitized with Philips Ultra Fast
Scanner and visualized with Paige FullFocus WSI viewing software.
Paige Prostate is an adjunctive computer-assisted methodology and its output should not be
used as the primary diagnosis. Pathologists should only use Paige Prostate in conjunction
with their complete standard of care evaluation of the slide image.
2. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
For in vitro diagnostic (IVD) use only
3. Special instrument requirements:
Philips IntelliSite Ultra Fast Scanner
FullFocus image viewing software
I. Device Description:
Paige Prostate is an in vitro diagnostic medical device software, derived from a deterministic
deep learning system that has been developed with digitized WSIs of H&E stained prostate
needle biopsy slides.
Paige Prostate utilizes several accessory devices as shown in Figure 1 below, for automated
ingestion of the input. The device identifies areas suspicious for cancer on the input WSIs. For
each input WSI, Paige Prostate automatically analyzes the WSI and outputs the following:
• Binary classification of suspicious or not suspicious for cancer based on a pre-defined
threshold on the neural network output.
• If the slide is classified as suspicious for cancer, a single coordinate (X,Y) of the location
with the highest probability of cancer on an image determined to be suspicious for cancer.
De Novo Summary (DEN200080) Page 2• If the slide is classified as not suspicious for cancer, no additional output will be available
by Paige Prostate. The Paige FullFocus WSI viewer will display “Not Suspicious for Cancer
– Area of Interest Not Available”.
Figure 1: Dataflow and Input/Output Devices for Paige Prostate: (Lock icon refers to the
transport layer security (TLS) encryption used for all data transfer between services within the
Paige Ecosystem. Data storage is encrypted at rest as indicated by the locked green storage icon).
Figure 2: Paige Prostate Pathologist Workflow
Algorithm development: Paige Prostate algorithm development was performed on training, tuning,
and test datasets. Each dataset contained slides from unique patients ensuring that training, tuning,
De Novo Summary (DEN200080) Page 3• Acceptance of Clinical Data to Support Medical Device Applications and Submissions
Frequently Asked Questions; February 2018
• Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff - Factors to Consider When
Making Benefit-Risk Determinations in Medical Device Premarket Approval and De Novo
Classifications; August 30, 2019
• Guidance for Off-the-Shelf Software Use in Medical Devices; September 2019
K. Test Principle:
Paige Prostate is operated as follows:
1. Scanned digital images of prostate needle biopsies are acquired using the designated digital
pathology scanner. Image and other related quality control steps are performed per the scanner
instructions for use and any additional user site specifications. The scanned digital images are
immediately processed by Paige Prostate in the background.
2. The pathologist selects a patient case and opens the whole slide image for review in the
designated digital pathology viewing software.
3. After the pathologist has fully reviewed all areas on the digital image of a prostate core biopsy
slide, and has decided upon a diagnosis of “cancer”, “no cancer”, or “defer”, the pathologist
must “activate the Paige Prostate” to view its output.
4. If Paige Prostate detects a region on the digital slide suggestive of carcinoma, it identifies the
region with greatest likelihood of being cancer and overlays a mark on that region indicated by
its coordinate (X,Y). This is a statistical determination and is not linked to other clinical
assessments, such as Gleason score.
5. The pathologist can toggle Paige Prostate outputs on and off to allow unobstructed re-
examination of any suspicious regions.
6. If the pathologist has already recognized cancer on the slide, no additional action is required. If
the pathologist has indicated a diagnosis of “no cancer” or “defer” and the algorithm indicates a
region suspicious for cancer, the pathologist is prompted to re-examine that slide image,
focusing initially on the region indicated by the algorithm.
7. If the pathologist determines that the histologic findings warrant a change in diagnosis from “no
cancer” to “cancer” or “defer”, or from “defer” to “cancer”, they then modify the original
diagnosis to reflect the additional findings.
8. The final diagnosis of cancer is made by the pathologist based upon the histologic findings and
should not be solely based on the algorithm’s output.
9. Pathologists should follow standard of care to obtain any additional stains, other pathologists’
opinions, and/or additional information, if needed, to render a final diagnosis.
10. The Paige Prostate device does not provide assistance with measuring or grading foci of
cancer, whether detected initially by the pathologist or recognized after deployment of the
algorithm.
The clinical workflow per prostate biopsy slide (WSI) is shown in Figure 3 below.
De Novo Summary (DEN200080) Page 5Figure 3: Clinical Workflow per Slide
L. Software:
The Paige Prostate device was identified to have a moderate level of concern as described in the
FDA guidance document “Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software
Contained in Medical Devices.” (May 11, 2005).
a. Software Description: Paige.AI provided a general description of the features in the
software documentation and in the device description. The description of the software is
consistent with the device functionality described in the device description.
b. Device Hazard Analysis: Paige.AI provided separate analyses of the device and
cybersecurity concerns. The content of the hazard analysis is sufficient and assesses pre- and
post-mitigation risks. The device hazard analysis includes:
• identification of the hazard
• cause of the hazard (hazardous situation)
• probability of the hazard
• severity of the hazard
• method of control or mitigation
• corrective measures taken, including an explanation of the aspects of the device
design/requirements, that eliminate, reduce, or warn of a hazardous event
verification of the control implementation, which is traceable through the
enumerated traceability matrix.
c. Software Requirement Specifications (SRS): The SRS includes user, engineering,
algorithmic, cybersecurity, and various other types of requirements that give a full
description of the functionality of the device. The SRS is consistent with the device
description and software description.
De Novo Summary (DEN200080) Page 6d. Architecture Design Chart: Paige.AI provided the software overview and included flow
diagrams representative of process flow for various features of the Paige Prostate device.
e. Software Design Specification (SDS): The SDS is traceable to the SRS and demonstrates
how individual requirements are implemented in the software design and includes
appropriate linkages to predefined verification testing.
f. Traceability Analysis/Matrix: Paige.AI Prostate provided traceability between all documents
including the SRS, SDS, and subsequent verification and validation. Hazard mitigations are
traceable throughout all documents.
g. Software Development Environment: Paige outlined the software development environment
and the processes/procedures used for medical device software development. The content is
consistent with expected quality system norms.
h. Verification and Validation Testing: The validation and system level verifications
procedures are based upon the requirements with clearly defined test procedures and
pass/fail criteria. All tests passed. Unit level test procedures, actual, and expected results are
included for all design specifications.
i. Revision Level History: Version (v) 2.1.501 was released prior to its use in all the
performance studies, including analytical (standalone and precision) and clinical reader
study. Software v2.1.501 will remain locked for use with the authorized device and will not
be continually trained and improved with each cohort analyzed in clinical practice, after
marketing authorization.
j. Unresolved Anomalies: All identified anomalies were resolved prior to verification and
validation of the software. There are no unresolved anomalies.
k. Cybersecurity: The cybersecurity documentation is consistent with the recommendations for
information that should be included in premarket submissions outlined in the FDA guidance
document “Content of Premarket Submissions for Management of Cybersecurity in Medical
Devices: Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff” (issued October 2,
2014). Information related to cybersecurity reviewed included:
• Hazard analysis related to cybersecurity risks,
• Traceability documentation linking cybersecurity controls to risks considered,
• Summary plan for validating software updates and patches throughout the lifecycle
of the medical device,
• Summary describing controls in place to ensure that the medical device will maintain
its integrity, and
• Device instructions for use and product specifications related to recommended
cybersecurity controls appropriate for the intended use of the device.
De Novo Summary (DEN200080) Page 7M. Performance Characteristics
1. Analytical Performance
The sponsor provided data from the following two studies to support the analytical performance of
the device:
a. Algorithm Localization (X,Y Coordinate) and Accuracy Study
b. Precision Study
a. Algorithm Localization (X,Y Coordinate) and Accuracy Study:
The performance of Paige Prostate in identifying digital histopathology images of prostate needle
biopsies that are suspicious for cancer and localizing one specific focus (X,Y) coordinate) with the
highest suspicion for cancer was evaluated. The (X,Y) coordinates identified by Paige Prostate were
evaluated against manual annotations of regions drawn by 3 study pathologists who were blinded to
the Paige Prostate results. These study pathologists did not participate in the clinical reader study.
The study sample set originally consisted of 847 scanned digital WSIs of prostate needle biopsy
slides (353 cancer and 494 benign) stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E). The scanned images
were obtained using the previously FDA-cleared Phillips UFS scanner. Out of 847 WSIs, 42 WSIs
with cancer and 77 WSIs that were benign did not represent unique patients, i.e., WSIs from
multiple different cases but from the same patient. In order to avoid any bias due to case-level
overlap in slides, only unique patient level cases were used in the data analysis, i.e., all slides were
unique at patient-level compared to the development dataset. Therefore, the final sample set
consisted of 728 WSIs (311 WSIs from cancer slides and 417 WSIs from benign slides). There
were 3 study pathologists that annotated the image crops as described below in the localization
assessment procedure section.
The distribution of the slide images by diagnosis, source of slides and race is provided in Table 3
below.
De Novo Summary (DEN200080) Page 8enriched with 50% challenging cancer slides, which were defined as slides with minimal tumor
burden (≤0.5mm). Benign parts were from cases that included cancer parts and represented unique
patients in the dataset.
Exclusion Criterion: Slides used during development (algorithm training, tuning and testing) of the
Paige Prostate were not used in this study.
Study set of slide images included representation from various races. Table 3 above shows the
distribution of slides by race.
Slide-Level Cancer Ground Truth Determination: The synoptic pathology diagnostic reports from
the internal site were used to generate the ground truth label for each slide as either cancer or no
cancer.
Localization Ground Truth: The (X,Y) coordinates identified by Paige Prostate were evaluated
against manual annotations of regions drawn by pathologists that were blinded to the device results.
Localization ground truths were determined by 3 US board-certified pathologists (2 completed
anatomic pathology fellowship and 1 sub-specialized genitourinary pathologist) annotated image
patches.
Localization Assessment Procedure:
1. Images used in this study were generated by scanning slides with a single Philips Ultra Fast
scanner.
2. Crops (regions) were generated from:
• WSIs in which Paige Prostate predicted suspicion for cancer and the ground truth
was cancer, and
• WSIs in which Paige Prostate predicted no suspicion for cancer and the ground
truth was no cancer. These slides (20% of the entire set)were included in the study for
unbiased estimation of accuracy, but were not considered in the final analysis.
3. All image crops (mix of cancer and benign) of WSIs were reviewed by all 3 study
pathologists independently and annotations were provided for image crops that were
identified as having cancer. The study pathologists were blinded to each other’s annotations
and to the results provided by Paige Prostate, during their assessments.
5. All Pathologists were provided the following instructions before annotating the crops:
a. The drawn boundary of the annotation must be reasonably tight such that it will be of
minimal size to enclose the cancerous regions.
b. Benign cells can be mixed in with cancerous cells since the purpose of the (X,Y)
coordinate is to draw the Pathologist’s attention to a focus in the region of interest.
6. The union of annotations between at least 2 of the 3 annotating pathologists was used as the
localization ground truth.
Primary Endpoints: The following definitions were used to classify the algorithm outcome based
on the type of slide:
• True Positive (TP): the algorithm correctly classified that a slide is suspicious for cancer and
the (X,Y) coordinate is within a prespecified distance of annotated pixels.
• True Negative (TN): the algorithm correctly classified that the slide is not suspicious for
cancer.
De Novo Summary (DEN200080) Page 10Results were displayed and pathologists conducted their assessments with an FDA-cleared whole
slide image viewer (FullFocusTM).
Each pathologist performed the following procedural steps on an individual basis.
a. Pathologists were trained to use the FDA-cleared digital pathology image review
system and the Paige Prostate device.
b. WSIs of scanned prostate biopsy slides were displayed on an FDA-cleared monitor to each
pathologist one at a time in a randomized order.
c. The pathologists completed an unassisted read directly followed by an assisted read for
every WSI.
• Unassisted Read: The pathologists reviewed the image, without Paige Prostate
assistance, with the FDA-cleared pathology viewer.
• Assisted Read: The pathologists reviewed the image with Paige Prostate result
coordinate (X,Y) overlaid on the same image. The result included:
• Paige Prostate slide level binary classification: suspicious for cancer or not suspicious
for cancer.
• Coordinate (X, Y): If the slide was predicted to be suspicious for cancer, the algorithm
identifies a coordinate (X, Y) of the region on the slide as having the highest
likelihood for harboring cancer.
d. Pathologists were instructed that they could choose to “defer for more information” during
the study if they were unable to render a definitive diagnosis as either “cancer” or “no
cancer.”
e. Classifications for each image were made without information from
immunohistochemistry (IHC) stains. The pathologists performed a complete review of
each WSI and recorded their classifications directly into the electronic database case
report form (CRF):
(i) The pathologists classified each slide as:
• cancer,
• no cancer, or
• defer for more information.
(ii) For the deferral classification, the pathologists selected why they would defer, from
the following options, which were all methods currently used in clinical practice
today when a pathologist is not able to determine a diagnosis from an H&E slide:
• Additional stains
• Additional levels
• Seek another opinion
• Other: If the pathologists selected “Other” they would elaborate via a free
text box in the CRF.
For each slide, sixteen pathologists completed an unassisted read directly followed by
an assisted read with Paige Prostate for every image.
Study Sample Characteristics:
a. The sample set originally consisted of 610 whole slide images of prostate needle
biopsy slides (190 cancer and 420 benign) stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E)
that were scanned using a single unit of the FDA-cleared Phillips Ultra Fast Scanner
with Philips Image Management System (IMS) to upload the scanned images. Out of
610 WSIs, 19 WSIs from prostate cancer slides and 64 WSIs from benign slides from
De Novo Summary (DEN200080) Page 17O. Patient perspectives
This submission did not include specific information on patient perspectives for this device.
P. Identified Risks to Health and Identified Mitigations
Identified Risks to Health Mitigation Measures
False negative classification (loss of Certain design verification and validation,
accuracy) including certain device descriptions, certain
analytical studies, and clinical studies.
Certain labeling information, including certain
device descriptions, certain performance
information, and certain limitations.
False positive classification (loss of Certain design verification and validation,
accuracy) including certain device descriptions, certain
analytical studies, and clinical studies.
Certain labeling information, including certain
device descriptions, certain performance
information, and certain limitations.
Q. Benefit-Risk Determination
Summary of Benefits
The use of this device for the proposed IU population according to the proposed instructions for use
is expected to benefit a small proportion of men who have undergone prostate biopsy in receiving a
correct pathologic diagnosis of that biopsy. Although standard of care is expected to yield the
correct diagnosis in the vast majority of such biopsies, there appears to be a small proportion of
cases for which a small focus of carcinoma may be overlooked and consequently identified with the
use of the device. In the pivotal clinical study, for 171 slides with cancer, the change from
“unassisted benign” to “assisted defer” was 6.2%, and the change from “unassisted benign” to
“assisted cancer” was 1.6%. Also, for 171 slides with cancer, the change from "unassisted defer" to
"assisted benign" was 0.3% and the change from "unassisted cancer" to "assisted benign" was 0.1%.
Therefore, in 7.3% of individual biopsy specimens with cancer, there is expected patient benefit in
terms of an improvement in sensitivity ((6.2% + 1.6%) - (0.3% + 0.1%)). On average, improvement
in specificity was 1.1% (specificity assisted = 89.50% minus specificity unassisted = 88.45%). It
should be noted that this analysis is on a per-biopsy basis, not on a per patient basis. Since in a
typical patient undergoing prostatic needle biopsy for evaluation of possible cancer, multiple core
biopsies are obtained, and many patients with prostate biopsies have cancer in multiple biopsies,
this expected benefit in practice would likely be substantially lower than 7.3% when evaluated on a
per-patient basis. There is also some limited expected benefit in terms of time savings for the
pathologist reviewing these biopsies.
De Novo Summary (DEN200080) Page 24Summary of Risks
The risk of use of this device for the proposed IU population according to the proposed instructions
for use is the loss of accuracy leading to an incorrect diagnosis (false positive or false negative).
Incorrect diagnosis is clearly harmful. This could be in the form of an incorrect diagnosis of cancer
for which the patient may receive unnecessary treatment and psychologically harmful
misinformation. An incorrect rendering of a benign diagnosis would likely cause a delay in the
treatment of a cancer and would likely in some cases lead to increased morbidity and mortality.
Benefit/Risk Conclusion
Paige Prostate appears to provide a reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness for diagnostic
use by its intended users after taking into consideration the special controls. The clinical and
analytical studies have shown that the risk of accuracy loss resulting in a false positive or false
negative diagnosis, is minimal relative to the patient safety benefits, including new findings that
would contribute to the correct diagnosis. This is contingent on the device being used according to
the approved labeling, particularly that the end user must be fully aware of how to interpret and
apply the device output.
The potential for false negative and false positive results is mitigated by special controls. Labeling
requirements, which include certain device description information as well as certain limitations,
ensure that users will employ all appropriate procedures and safeguards as specified, including use
of the device as an adjunct rather than as the sole basis of making the diagnosis.
In addition, design verification and validation includes data on software performance as supported
by the underlying software design, as well as software algorithm training and validation within the
limits of the specified intended use. This also includes analytical validation (including precision
studies) and clinical validation (including user validation studies and performance studies) studies.
The probable clinical benefits outweigh the potential risks when the standard of care is followed by
qualified users, and appropriate mitigation of the risks is provided for through implementation of
and adherence to the special controls. The combination of the general controls and established
special controls support the assertion that the probable benefits outweigh the probable risks.
R. Conclusion
The De Novo request is granted, and the device is classified under the following and subject to the
special controls identified in the letter granting the De Novo request:
Product Code: QPN
Device type: Software algorithm device to assist users in digital pathology
Class: II
Regulation: 21 CFR 864.3750
De Novo Summary (DEN200080) Page 25