DE NOVO CLASSIFICATION REQUEST FOR
OXEHEALTH VITAL SIGNS
REGULATORY INFORMATION
FDA identifies this generic type of device as:
Software for optical camera-based measurement of pulse rate, heart rate, breathing
rate, and/or respiratory rate. The device uses software algorithms to analyze video
signal and estimate pulse rate, heart rate, respiratory rate and/or breathing rates. This
device is not intended to independently direct therapy.
NEW REGULATION NUMBER: 21 CFR 870.2785
CLASSIFICATION: Class II
PRODUCT CODE: QME
BACKGROUND
DEVICE NAME: Oxehealth Vital Signs
SUBMISSION NUMBER: DEN200019
DATE DE NOVO RECEIVED: March 27, 2020
SPONSOR INFORMATION:
Oxehealth Limited
Magdalen Center North, the Oxford Science Park
Oxford OX4 4GA
INDICATIONS FOR USE
The Oxehealth Vital Signs device is intended for noninvasive spot measurement of pulse rate and
estimated breathing rate (chest wall movements) when the subject is still. It is software assessing
video footage from a fixed-installation solution for use within single occupancy rooms within
hospitals, general care and secured environments with professional healthcare oversight and
where a framework exists which mandates periodic checks by a trained professional to ensure
subject safety.
The Oxehealth system is intended for use by appropriately trained staff with a duty of care, and
should not be used by untrained users.The Oxehealth Vital Signs device is indicated for use on humans 18 years of age or older who do
not require critical care or continuous vital signs monitoring.
The device is not intended to be the sole method of checking the physical health of a subject.
LIMITATIONS
The subject must be still for a vital sign to be detected. For a pulse rate to be measured, a
sufficient area of exposed skin must be visible to the camera. For a breathing rate to be
measured, the movement of the chest must be visible to the camera.
The device is not a continuous monitor and is only intended for spot-check measurements
of pulse rate and estimated breathing rate (chest wall movements).
The Oxehealth system is intended for use by appropriately trained staff with a duty of
care, and should not be used by untrained lay users.
The device is not intended to be the sole method of checking the physical health of a
subject.
PLEASE REFER TO THE LABELING FOR A COMPLETE LIST OF WARNINGS,
PRECAUTIONS AND CONTRAINDICATIONS.
DEVICE DESCRIPTION
The device is a software algorithm that reads data collected using off-the-shelf cameras
collecting images in the near-infrared spectrum. These images can be used to act as a non-contact
monitor of pulse and breathing rates for individuals aged 18 and older in single-subject room
environments. Pulse rate is determined by monitoring pixel intensity changes for exposed skin.
Breathing rate is determined with motion tracking of the patient’s chest. Video is collected
through video cameras installed in each room. When run through proprietary software-controlled
algorithms, the software will allow a user to make spot checks for pulse and estimated breathing
rates (chest wall movements) of the individual in the room. This allows vital monitoring without
disturbing the patient either to allow for patient rest or to protect staff that would otherwise need
to enter the room with a potentially dangerous patient.
Off-the-shelf components must meet specifications set by the sponsor in order to ensure they will
provide adequate quality video capture for analysis by the medical device.
SUMMARY OF NONCLINICAL/BENCH STUDIES
SOFTWARE
The Oxehealth Vital Signs device has a Moderate Level of Concern (LOC). Appropriate
documentation was provided to support the validation of the software for a Moderate
De Novo Summary (DEN200019) Page 2 of 8LOC in accordance with FDA’s 2005 guidance titled, “Guidance for the Content of
Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical Devices.” The sponsor
provided details on how the software algorithm measures pulse and breathing rate. Also
in order to ensure that the non-device components will provide adequate information for
the software algorithm, the sponsor provided minimum specifications for non-device
components. Rationale was provided for choice of the minimum hardware specifications
to ensure appropriate functioning of the software algorithm. The workflow and software
handling of hardware error or failures were demonstrated.
Because the device is network connected, appropriate documentation was provided in
accordance with FDA’s 2014 guidance titled “Content of Premarket Submissions for
Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices” to support adequate cybersecurity
measures have been taken and will be monitored and updated throughout the device life
cycle.
PERFORMANCE TESTING - BENCH
The majority of performance testing for the Oxehealth device are encapsulated in
software section above and through validation of the overall system in clinical studies.
Additionally, system installation instructions require unit-by-unit verification of all
hardware and environmental conditions to be installed at a customer site by Oxehealth as
well as verifying adequate performance at maximum usage load of the solution before
handover to the customer.
Adequate scientific rationale was provided to justify specifications of off-the-shelf
components to ensure image quality would be appropriate for the software algorithm to
have reliable performance.
HUMAN FACTORS/USABILITY
A human factors study was conducted with 10 users, 8 of which were given the user
manual for self-training and 2 of which received no training. These users were asked to
operate the Oxehealth Vital Signs device for 30 minutes to repeatedly obtain pulse and
breathing measurements on a subject mimicking behaviors expected of patients. The
testing verified the critical tasks of (1) ensuring measurement is taken from a patient and
(2) distinguishing historical measurements from current measurements. The testing
provided adequate assurance that the critical tasks could be performed.
SUMMARY OF CLINICAL INFORMATION
The sponsor provided a clinical study protocol and results to support the safety and effectiveness
of the device. The clinical performance study design was an observational, uncontrolled study in
patients 18 years of age and older. Patient recruitment was setup to ensure collection on a
complete range of skin color types, body mass indices, and ages according to US census data
(min. n=6 per Fitzpatrick scale class, where each class includes 2 skin types; 60 adult patients).
De Novo Summary (DEN200019) Page 3 of 8Patient age ranged from 18 to 81 years of age. The study evaluated the Oxehealth device
performance measuring pulse and breathing rate under a range of expected conditions. Pulse and
breathing rate was compared to the Somnoscreen system (standard contact device) in a statistical
non-inferiority test. The study also showed that the Oxehealth system provides measurements of
pulse rate and estimated breathing rate (chest wall movements) on the majority of occasions on
which measurements would be expected.
The primary objective of the study was to assess the accuracy of pulse rate and estimated
breathing rate (chest wall movements) measurements made using the Oxehealth Vital Signs
device, calculated as the root mean square difference (RMSD) across all measurements when
compared to a standard contact device. The pulse rate RMSD was found to be significantly less
than the study objective of three beats per minute. The breathing rate RMSD was found to be
significantly less than the study objective of two breaths per minute.
One-sided 97.5% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated for these two endpoints, using the
bootstrap method. The pulse rate RMSD was found to be 1.81 bpm (CI 0 - 2.19 bpm). The
estimated breathing rate (chest wall movements) RMSD was found to be 1.17 breaths/minute (CI
0 - 1.33) breaths/minute.
The study was not powered to demonstrate statistical significance in sub-groups of the 60
participants. However, RMSD point estimates and their one-sided 97.5% confidence intervals for
sub-groups were calculated to ensure adequate performance throughout the expected patient
demographics.
For measurements for which the device could be used within its label (that is, with the
participant not moving at the time of measurement, and, in the case of pulse rate measurement,
with skin visible), 58% (95% CI 51% - 65%) of measurement attempts resulted in a displayed
pulse rate, and 73% (95% CI 68% - 79%) of measurement attempts resulted in a displayed
breathing rate. The study was intended to be a worst case scenario, as the study protocol required
a reading to be taken at the same specified time during all activities, including those activities
where the likelihood of a valid measurement being taken was reduced. Experience with the
device (user reported outcomes) outside the United States suggest that proposed device is more
commonly used when patients are resting, sleeping, or are moribund.
Pediatric Extrapolation
The Oxehealth Vital Signs device is indicated for patients age 18 and older. For medical devices,
the FD&C Act defines patients before their 22nd birthday as pediatric patients. In this De Novo
request, data from patients between 18-22 were used to support the use of the device in patients
over the age of 18. It was appropriate to indicate the device for individuals 18 and older because
of this data and patients aged 18 to 21 do not carry additional differences or risks relative to the
patient population studied.
LABELING
De Novo Summary (DEN200019) Page 4 of 8The labeling includes a description of what the device measures and outputs to the user. The user
must be still in order for a measurement to be taken with adequate skin visible for pulse rate
measurement and the motion of the chest visible for estimated breathing rate (chest wall
movements) measurement. Importantly, the vital signs measured are pulse and breathing rate,
which is distinct from heart rate and respiration rate. As certain cardiac arrhythmias may
confound accurate readings, patients with known cardiac arrhythmias should not use this device.
Further, clinical data used to support the safety and effectiveness of the device did not include
subjects with elevated pulse rates, so accuracy may be reduced when the subject has a pulse rate
greater than 110 beats per minute. Other patient conditions that may affect performance of the
device are listed in the labeling. Certain room conditions may affect performance (bright lights,
shower, etc.). If the Oxehealth Vital Signs device fails to respond as described, discontinue use
until the situation has been corrected.
The device is not a continuous monitor and is only intended for spot-check measurements of
breathing and pulse rate. The reported accuracy of the system is described for both
measurements in accordance with what was measured in the clinical study. The device should
not be used with any subject receiving critical care. The Oxehealth system is intended for use by
appropriately trained staff with a duty of care, and should not be used by untrained lay users. The
device is not intended to be the sole method of checking the physical health of a subject.
Installation will be carried out by an Oxehealth trained installer, according to installation
instructions and verification procedures provided by Oxehealth.
RISKS TO HEALTH
The table below identifies the risks to health that may be associated with use of software for
optical camera-based measurement of pulse rate, heart rate, breathing rate, and/or respiratory rate
and the measures necessary to mitigate these risks.
Identified Risks to Health Mitigation Measures
Delayed or incorrect treatment due to Software verification, validation, and hazard
erroneous output as a result of software analysis
malfunction or algorithm error Cybersecurity assessment
Clinical data
Labeling
Delayed or incorrect treatment due to user Human factors assessment
misinterpretation Labeling
Delayed or incorrect treatment due to non- Software verification, validation, and hazard
device components failing to provide inputs for analysis
software to adequately analyze Clinical data
Human factors assessment
Labeling
SPECIAL CONTROLS
De Novo Summary (DEN200019) Page 5 of 8In combination with the general controls of the FD&C Act, the software for optical camera-
based measurement of pulse rate, heart rate, breathing rate, and/or respiratory rate is subject to
the following special controls:
(1) A software description and the results of verification and validation testing based on a
comprehensive hazard analysis and risk assessment must include:
(i) A full characterization of the software technical parameters, including algorithms;
(ii) If required image acquisition hardware is not included with the device, full
specifications of the hardware requirements and testing to demonstrate the specified
hardware ensures adequate data for validated and accurate measurements.
(iii) A description of the expected impact of all applicable sensor acquisition hardware
characteristics and associated hardware specifications;
(iv) A description of all mitigations for user error or failure of any subsystem
components (including signal detection, signal analysis, data display, and storage) on
output accuracy; and
(v) Software documentation must include a cybersecurity vulnerability and management
process to assure software functionality.
(2) Clinical data must be provided. This assessment must fulfill the following:
(i) The clinical data must be representative of the intended use population for the
device. Any selection criteria or sample limitations must be fully described and
justified.
(ii) The assessment must demonstrate output consistency using the expected range of
data sources and data quality encountered in the intended use population and
environment.
(iii) The assessment must compare device output with a clinically accurate patient-
contacting relevant comparator device in an accurate and reproducible manner.
(3) A human factors and usability engineering assessment must be provided that evaluates the
risk of improper measurement.
(4) Labeling must include:
(i) A description of what the device measures and outputs to the user;
(ii) Warnings identifying sensor acquisition factors or subject conditions or
characteristics (garment types/textures, motion, etc.) that may impact measurement
results;
(iii) Guidance for interpretation of the measurements, including a statement that the
output is adjunctive to other physical vital sign parameters and patient information;
(iv) The expected performance of the device for all intended use populations and
environments; and
(v) Robust instructions to ensure correct system setup.
BENEFIT-RISK DETERMINATION
The risks of the device are based on data collected in a clinical study described above.
De Novo Summary (DEN200019) Page 6 of 8The consequences of an incorrect reading would be a delay in the provision of care or
unnecessary testing. The patient could suffer harm from the delay in providing care.
However, the device has been validated to have clinically acceptable accuracy and the
probability of a patient harm related to false results is minimum.
The probable benefits of the device are also based on data collected in a clinical study as
described above.
The device can benefit the patient by minimizing intrusion due to regular bedside vital
signs measurements. In certain settings and circumstances, the non-contact measurement
method offers a more practical and safer alternative to the conventional way of vital signs
measurements. The device is especially valuable in environments (e.g., isolation rooms,
secure facilities, and psychiatric wards) where routine physical interaction with a patient
may be risky for to both the patient and health care provider. Remote monitoring
provided by the device can also minimize personnel exposure to the patient.
In situations where regular access to subjects is impractical or unsafe, there are few
alternatives. While contact sensors may be considered, their use is often limited by poor
compliance and device-associated physical discomfort. For basic vital sign monitoring in
these settings, there is a high likelihood that the Oxehealth device can offer significant
advantages over existing alternatives.
Patient Perspectives
Patient perspectives considered for the Oxehealth Vital Signs during the review include surveys
from patients who had been checked with the Oxehealth system in an existing hospital
installation outside. The results demonstrated preference for the contactless checks as it didn’t
disturb their sleep and may result in less complaints from patients.
Benefit/Risk Conclusion
In conclusion, given the available information above, for the following indication statement:
The Oxehealth Vital Signs device is intended for noninvasive spot measurement of pulse
rate and estimated breathing rate (chest wall movements) when the subject is still. It is
software assessing video footage from a fixed-installation solution for use within single
occupancy rooms within hospitals, general care and secured environments with
professional healthcare oversight and where a framework exists which mandates periodic
checks by a trained professional to ensure subject safety.
The Oxehealth system is intended for use by appropriately trained staff with a duty of
care, and should not be used by untrained users.
The Oxehealth Vital Signs device is indicated for use on humans 18 years of age or older
who do not require critical care or continuous vital signs monitoring.
De Novo Summary (DEN200019) Page 7 of 8The device is not intended to be the sole method of checking the physical health of a
subject.
The probable benefits outweigh the probable risks for the Oxehealth Vital Signs. The device
provides benefits and the risks can be mitigated by the use of general controls and the identified
special controls.
CONCLUSION
The De Novo request for the Oxehealth Vital Signs device is granted, and the device is classified
as follows:
Product Code: QME
Device Type: Software for optical camera-based measurement of pulse rate, heart rate,
breathing rate, and/or respiratory rate
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 870.2785
Class: II
De Novo Summary (DEN200019) Page 8 of 8