DE NOVO CLASSIFICATION REQUEST FOR
SLEEP APNEA FEATURE
REGULATORY INFORMATION
FDA identifies this generic type of device as:
Over-the-counter device to assess risk of sleep apnea. An over-the-counter device to
assess risk of sleep apnea is intended to provide a notification of the risk of sleep apnea in
users who have not been previously diagnosed with sleep apnea. This device uses
software algorithms to analyze input sensor signals and provide a risk assessment for
sleep apnea. It is not intended to provide a standalone diagnosis, replace traditional
methods of diagnosis (e.g., polysomnography), assist clinicians in diagnosing sleep
disorders, or be used as an apnea monitor.
NEW REGULATION NUMBER: 21 CFR 868.2378
CLASSIFICATION: Class II
PRODUCT CODE: QZW
BACKGROUND
DEVICE NAME: Sleep Apnea Feature
SUBMISSION NUMBER: DEN230041
DATE DE Novo RECEIVED: May 31, 2023
SPONSOR INFORMATION:
Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
Samsung Research America
665 Clyde Avenue,
Mountain View, CA 94043 USA
INDICATIONS FOR USE
The Sleep Apnea Feature is indicated as follows:
The Sleep Apnea Feature is an over-the-counter (OTC) software-only, mobile medical
application operating on a compatible Samsung Galaxy Watch and Phone.
This feature is intended to detect signs of moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnea in
the form of significant breathing disruptions in adult users 22 years and older, over a two-
night monitoring period. It is intended for on demand use.This feature is not intended for users who have previously been diagnosed with sleep
apnea. Users should not use this feature to replace traditional methods of diagnosis and
treatment by a qualified clinician. The data provided by this device is also not intended to
assist clinicians in diagnosing sleep disorders.
LIMITATIONS
DON'T use this Sleep apnea feature if you've already been diagnosed with sleep apnea.
DON'T use this Sleep apnea feature if you're under 22 years old.
Your Galaxy Watch can't catch every case of obstructive sleep apnea. The watch only checks for
possible moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnea and can't detect central sleep apnea.
DON'T use this Sleep apnea feature if you've been diagnosed with any of these conditions:
• Movement related conditions: Parkinson's, Tremor, Periodic Leg Movement During Sleep
(PLMS)
• Cardiac conditions: Congestive Heart Failure (CHF), atrial fibrillation
• Lung conditions: Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), chronic bronchitis,
emphysema, pulmonary fibrosis.
You shouldn't use this sleep apnea feature if you're pregnant or have temporary symptoms of
impaired breathing from flu, allergies, asthma, or any other condition, because your results may
be inaccurate.
DON'T change the dose or schedule of any medications based on results from this feature.
Always talk to your doctor first.
PLEASE REFER TO THE LABELING FOR A COMPLETE LIST OF WARNINGS,
PRECAUTIONS AND CONTRAINDICATIONS.
DEVICE DESCRIPTION
The Samsung Sleep Apnea Feature leverages wrist-worn PPG and actigraphy technology to
create an over-the-counter (OTC) assessment of moderate-to-severe obstructive sleep apnea for
adults. When enabled, the device utilizes the wearable platform's PPG-derived Sp02 to monitor
the user's sleep for repetitive, relative decreases in their blood oxygenation indicative of
significant breathing disruptions associated with sleep apnea. Each on-demand assessment period
requires two successful nights of observation within 10 days. After two qualifying assessment
nights, the device will display the result on the wearable, after which, the user is guided to the
phone for additional information. This provides the user with health information so that they may
seek out medical attention. No raw signal data, including the Sp02 signal, is provided to the user
nor is it able to be shared with clinicians.
The Samsung Sleep Apnea Feature consists of two mobile medical applications, one on the
wearable (e.g., Samsung Galaxy Watch) and the other on the connected mobile phone (e.g.,
De Novo Summary (DEN230041) Page 2 of 12Samsung Galaxy Phone), both commercial off-the-shelf general computing platforms.
Communications between the two devices are accomplished by encrypted Bluetooth/BLE
connection via standard protocols for data transfer. The wearable component of the Sleep Apnea
Feature runs in the wearable's operating system allowing it to verify the
identification/qualification of the hardware, request Sp02/accelerometer signals via private
APIs, display information on the screen display, and send data and receive commands to the
phone Sleep Apnea Feature on the associated phone. The phone component of the Sleep Apnea
feature provides a UI for onboarding, labeling, and status as well as the ability for device
updates.
Sleep Apnea Classification Algorithm
The Sleep Apnea Feature evaluates sleep sessions by leveraging the platform's capabilities to
acquire PPG signals and derive Sp02 values from those signals. After performing PPG and
Sp02 signal quality checks, the algorithm performs this function using 3 steps.
1. Pre-Processing: Sp02 signal interpolation, segmentation, and feature extraction.
2. Respiratory Event Classification: Identify presence of relative Sp02 drop in each 1-
minute window.
3. eAHI Estimation and Classification: Enumerate relative Sp02 dips, per-night comparison
to the 15 events/hour estimated Apnea/Hypopnea Index (eAHI) threshold.
To account for internight variability, the device requires two nights of sleep data indicating
moderate-to-severe sleep apnea within 10 days. The possible combinations for this two-night
voting, and if it results in a notification of insufficient data or a classification, are provided in
Table 1.
Table 1. Determination of the Results Based on Two Nights Within 10 days.
i Classification Night 1 Night 2
Didn't detect signs of Moderate- eAHI < 15 or > 15 or Insufficient
to-Severe Obstructive Sleep eAHI < 15 Data (only if previous qualifying
Apnea night eAHI <15)
Detected signs of Moderate-to-
eAHI > 15 eAHI > 15
Severe Obstructive Sleep apnea
Sleep Time <3 Hours
Insufficient Data Notification
Sp02 coverage < 70%
The Sleep Apnea Feature includes machine learned algorithms. During their development
datasets from representative populations were utilized from over 1000 subjects, split into
separate training, tuning, and testing datasets, all maintained independently from the final
verification and validation activities.
Device Software Function Inputs
The wearable hardware platform contains green/red/infrared PPG and accelerometer sensors to
provide data to platform software functions that in turn process the data and output 3 data
streams: "Sleep On/Off', "Sleep Off Delay", and Sp02 Data. These 3 data streams serve as
inputs for the device software function algorithm blocks, while also providing data to other non-
medical applications, such as Samsung Health's Sleep Tracking application.
De Novo Summary (DEN230041) Page 3 of 12The Sp02 signal provided by the platform is qualified by utilizing multi-channel PPG signal
quality and similarity calculations, while rejecting periods of noise and motion. If the segments
are determined to be valid, the platform then calculates a Sp02 value for each of the four
channels of qualifying signals. Finally, the four data channels are integrated into single stream of
Sp02 values.
The device software function independently verifies sufficient duration and continuity of Sp02
as it comes from the platform, verifying sufficient Sp02 abundance and continuity to
appropriately evaluate sleep sessions. The device outputs an Insufficient Data Notification if the
provided Sp02 signal is not sufficient for classification.
Multiple Function Device Products
This product has functions subject to FDA premarket review as well as functions that are not
subject to FDA premarket review. Specifically, the Samsung wearable and phone host numerous
other functions for non-medical, general wellness and/or general consumer purposes.
Consistent with FDA's guidance titled, "Multiple Function Device Products: Policy and
Considerations," FDA assessed the other functions only to the extent that they either could
adversely impact the safety and effectiveness of the functions subject to FDA premarket review
or they are included as a labeled positive impact that was considered in the assessment of the
functions subject to FDA premarket review. Samsung identified and assessed the risk of the
presence of the other functions that directly contributes to the device software function, as well
as those that stand apart, as a part of its System Risk Analysis. The assessment concluded that
the identified risks posed by the other functions are minimal and do not impact the safety or
effectiveness of the device.
SUMMARY OF NONCLINICAL/BENCH STUDIES
SOFTWARE
Samsung Sleep Apnea Feature has a Moderate Level of Concern (LOC). Appropriate
documentation was provided to support the validation of the software for a Moderate
LOC in accordance with FDA's 2005 guidance titled, "Guidance for the Content of
Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical Devices."
CYBERSECURITY
Samsung approach to cybersecurity aligns with FDA's 2014 guidance titled, "Content of
Premarket Submissions for Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices." The
device also conforms to the cybersecurity requirements identified in Section 524B to the
FD&C Act.
PERFORMANCE TESTING - BENCH
Evaluation of Input Signal Quality
De Novo Summary (DEN230041) Page 4 of 12The wearable platform is responsible for acquiring the signals used by the Sleep Apnea
Feature. The PPG input signal quality depends on various biological and environmental
factors, which can introduce variable noise components in the signal. To support the
ability of the device software function to perform as intended, the following bench testing
summarized in Table 2 was submitted.
Table 2. Wearable Hardware Platform Bench Verification Testing Overview
'teSiiiigitent Approach and Purpose
Verify that the platform provides
SpO2Data Integrity
5p02 data at the correct frequency
Verify that the platform provides
Accelerometer Sensor
accelerometer data with a minimum
Performance
sensitivity and a maximum noise
Table 3 summarizes on-human testing that verify the Sp02 and Sleep platform functions
are capable of producing quality data for the device software function to utilize.
Table 3. Wearable Platform On-Human Verification Testing Overview
Testing Item Approach and Purpose
Reprocess prior clinical validation data to ensure
updates to the platform sleep detection capability
Sleep Time
does not impact clinical performance. The current
platform is verified during the clinical validation.
On human sleep test conducted in split healthy and
On-human Sleep
sleep apnea subjects to verify real world performance
5p02 Accuracy
of the updated hardware and/or Sp02 platform.
On human sleep test conducted in split healthy and
On-human Sleep sleep apnea subjects to verify real world Sp02 signal
Sp02 Coverage coverage of the updated hardware and/or Sp02
platform.
Comparing Wearable Sp02 to Arterial Line Sa02 per
On-human Stationary
IS080601-2-61:2017 to verify Sp02 capability's
Sp02 Accuracy
accuracy on subjects of varied skin tones
On human bench testing to verify that low perfusion
Low Perfusion does not reduce the accuracy of Sp02 capability on
subjects of varied skin tones
Samsung also provided platform interface specifications necessary to ensure the device
software function would continue to perform as intended over time.
De Novo Summary (DEN230041) Page 5 of 12SUMMARY OF CLINICAL INFORMATION
A non-randomized, open-label, multi-center, single-blind study was conducted in an enriched
adult population with an accredited sleep lab recruiting and enrolling subjects, analyzing study
results, and writing the clinical study report. The study compared the result from the Samsung
Sleep Apnea Feature, the Device Under Test (DUT), with physician's assessment on
corresponding PSG from an FDA-cleared PSG device as the clinical gold standard. The objective
was to validate that the Samsung Sleep Apnea Feature is capable of correctly differentiating and
identifying general population wearable users who show signs of moderate-to-severe obstructive
sleep apnea (AHI >15) and those users who do not show signs of moderate-to-severe obstructive
sleep apnea (AHI <15), as measured by sensitivity and specificity, respectively.
There were no device related adverse events. Out of 620 enrolled subjects, a total of 47 subjects
did not complete the investigation.
Study Results
The Samsung Sleep Apnea Features' sensitivity was 82.7% (167 out of 202 subjects) with a 95%
confidence interval of [76.7%, 87.6%], which passes the predetermined acceptance criteria. The
DUT's specificity was 87.7% (235 out of 268) with a 95% confidence interval of [83.1%,
91.4%], which did not pass the acceptance criteria. The Clopper-Pearson exact binomial interval
was used to determine the confidence interval for sensitivity and specificity.
The single night classification percent agreement between PSG and DUT is 84.2% (791 out of
930 nights). The device data insufficiency rate is 16.7% (205 out of 1229 nights).
While the proposed device did not pass the specificity acceptance criteria, a post-hoc analysis of
the false positive subjects showed that of the 33 false positive subjects, 23 subjects (69.7%) had
at least one night of positive PSG for moderate-to-severe obstructive sleep apnea (AHI > 15). Of
these 23 subjects, 10 subjects also had mild sleep apnea (AHI? 5) on their second night and did
not have a previous sleep apnea diagnosis. Though false positives by definition of the study
design, the positive DUT classification benefited these 10 previously undiagnosed subjects,
directing them to appropriate care and potential treatment. Considering the benefit received by
these 10 subjects, a modified calculation increases specificity to 91.1% (95% lower confidence
bound of 86.9%) surpassing the pre-specified specificity acceptance criteria.
Subgroup Analyses
Performance variations were observed among different subpopulation during this study.
While demographic subgroups were not statistically powered for conclusive comparisons of
performance, the observed performance trends in these subgroups were found to be acceptable.
During the study, 399 subjects exhibited consistent PSG results across both nights of the
study; 89 subjects had a normal PSG, 108 subjects had mild OSA, 91 subjects had moderate
OSA, and 111 subjects had as severe PSG. The feature correctly identified all 89 normal
subjects, 98 of the 108 mild subjects, 60 of the 91 moderate subjects, and 107 of the 111 severe
subjects. A follow-up analysis of the False Negative subjects within the moderate group
indicated that in 22 out of the 31 subjects, the reference reported < 20 AHI on one of the two
nights (12 of which report < 17 AHI). Similarly, in 24 out of the 31 subjects, the device reported
De Novo Summary (DEN230041) Page 6 of 12that 1 out of the 2 nights was OSA positive (eAHI > 15). This analysis indicates that a significant
portion of these false negative subjects are on the border of mild and moderate sleep apnea,
making them difficult to classify. However, the device still benefited majority of the moderate
group. The device also educates the user on common OSA symptom in device labeling through
UI elements, making them more aware of their sleep apnea condition, and advises them to seek
medical care if they are unwell regardless of the result. These borderline users can also choose to
test again in a few months, where the device is likely to produce a positive classification if their
sleep apnea has worsened.
For age, the subgroups were those under 40 years old (n = 160, sensitivity of 73.7%, specificity
of 92.6%), those between 40 and 55 years old (n = 150, sensitivity of 87.9%, specificity of
86.9%), and those over 55 years old (n = 160, sensitivity of 82.7%, specificity of 79%). For
gender, the subgroups were male (n = 244, sensitivity of 86.1%, specificity of 83.5%) and female
(n = 226, sensitivity of 76.7%, specificity of 90.9%). For BMI, the subgroups were those with
BMI lower than 25 (n = 99, sensitivity of 70%, specificity of 91%) and those with BMI greater
than 25 (n = 371, sensitivity of 83.3%, specificity of 86%). For skin tone, the subgroups were
those with light skin tone (Fitzpatrick Scale 1 and 2, n = 116, sensitivity of 74.1%, specificity of
94.8%), those with medium skin tone (Fitzpatrick Scale 3 and 4, n = 245, sensitivity of 85.7%,
specificity of 82.7%), and those with darker skin tone (Fitzpatrick Scale 5 and 6, n = 109,
sensitivity of 87.5%, specificity of 90.9%).
In populations where the disease is less prevalent, such as females (76.7% sensitivity,
90.9% specificity), Fitzpatrick Skin Tone I or II (lighter skin tone, 74.1% sensitivity, 94.8%
specificity), BMI under 25 (70% sensitivity, 91% specificity), and age under 40 (73.7%
sensitivity, 92.6% specificity), a trade off to achieve higher specificity at the expense of lower
sensitivity is desirable for overall population accuracy of the device. Since disease prevalence in
these groups is lower, the absolute number of users at risk of a false negative classification is
also lower relative to other subgroups. Conversely, performance in the age over 55 group showed
lower specificity and higher sensitivity, which is similarly desirable for this subpopulation.
In the subpopulation where optical Sp02 technology is known to have lower performance
(i.e., darker skin pigmentation), the DUT's sleep apnea classification accuracy exceeded that of
the general population (sensitivity 87.5%, specificity 90.9%).
Finally, the clinical study had 47 subjects with low baseline perfusion. In these subjects,
the sensitivity and specificity of the device were 100% and 94.1%, respectively.
Combined with passing all other endpoints in this study, it can be concluded that the
device possesses an appropriate level of performance for general population obstructive sleep
apnea assessment.
Human Factors and Usability Study
As an OTC device, the Human Factors Summative study included two separate portions:
a Self-Selection portion and a Performance Testing portion. For the Self-Selection portion, a
group of twenty adult consumers from the general public were given the Samsung Sleep Apnea
Feature and the device's labeling to determine if they were an intended or non-intended user of
De Novo Summary (DEN230041) Page 7 of 12the device. In this session, 16 correctly identified as intended users and 4 correctly identified as
non-intended users.
The performance testing portion consisted of 5 simulated use scenarios to evaluate the
participants behavior after receiving the result classifications. It also included a knowledge
question section focused on the participants' understanding of the product's limitations, to verify
that they would not over rely on information from the product.
During the summative study, one use error occurred that was associated with a critical
task, where the participant said they would not contact the doctor after receiving the notification
despite suffering from sleep related symptoms. In the follow-up exchange, this participant was
demonstrated to be biased toward delay of treatment behavior due to prior healthcare
experiences. However, the participant did respond correctly to knowledge questions indicating
the correct action was to contact an HCP because of symptoms.
Overall, participants were successful in completing onboarding and enabling the device
and answered knowledge questions correctly regarding safe use and limitations of the device.
The result of the summative study supports the conclusion that the Samsung Sleep Apnea
Feature can be used safely and effectively by the intended users, for the intended uses, and in the
intended use environments.
Pediatric Extrapolation
In this De Novo request, existing clinical data were not leveraged to support the use of the device
in a pediatric patient population.
LABELING
The labeling for the device is sufficient and satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR 801.109. The
labeling consists of Instructions for Use and an onboarding sequence. The Instructions for Use
include the indications for use; a description of the device, precautions; a detailed summary of
the clinical data collected in support of the device; a list of adverse events; and instructions for
the safe use of the device.
Please see the Limitations section above for important contraindications, warnings, and
precautions presented in the device labeling.
RISKS TO HEALTH
The table below identifies the risks to health that may be associated with use of an over-the-
counter device to assess risk of sleep apnea.
Risks to Health Mitigation Measures
False negative resulting in failure Clinical performance testing
to assess risk of sleep apnea and Non-clinical performance testing
delay of further evaluation or Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis
treatment Labeling
_
False positive resulting in Clinical performance testing
additional unnecessary medical Non-clinical performance testing
De Novo Summary (DEN230041) Page 8 of 12Risks to Health Mitigation Measures _
procedures Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis
Labeling
'
Misinterpretation and/or Human factors testing
overreliance on device output, Labeling
leading to:
• Failure to seek treatment
despite sleep apnea
symptoms
• Discontinuing or
modifying treatment for
sleep apnea
Poor quality sensor data input to Non-clinical performance testing
the device software function Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis
resulting in incorrect sleep apnea Human factors testing
assessment Labeling
Electrical shock, burn, or Electrical safety testing
interference with other devices (for Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) testing
device hardware components) Labeling
Adverse tissue reaction (for device Biocompatibility evaluation
hardware components)
SPECIAL CONTROLS
In combination with the general controls of the FD&C Act, the over-the-counter device to assess
risk of sleep apnea is subject to the following special controls:
(1) Clinical performance testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under
anticipated conditions of use. This testing must fulfill the following:
(i) Testing must include a study population representative of the intended use
population for the device, including subjects symptomatic and asymptomatic of sleep
apnea. Any selection criteria or sample limitations must be fully described and
justified.
(ii) The assessment must demonstrate output consistency using the expected range of
data sources and data quality encountered in the intended use population and
environment.
(iii) The assessment must evaluate device performance across all applicable subgroups
(e.g., age, gender, body mass index (BMI), skin-tone, etc.).
(iv) The assessment must compare device performance with a clinical comparator device
(e.g., polysomnography) to demonstrate the required accuracy and/or sensitivity and
specificity of the output measure(s). Justification for the clinical comparator as
ground truth must be provided.
(v) For devices with machine learning-based algorithms, the clinical validation must be
completed using a dataset that is separate from the training dataset.
De Novo Summary (DEN230041) Page 9 of 12(2) Non-clinical performance data must demonstrate that the device performs as intended
under anticipated conditions of use. Performance testing must demonstrate hardware
compatibility and the ability of the device software and hardware to provide adequate input
signal quality and handle noisy or missing data and poor signal quality.
(3) Performance data must be provided to demonstrate the electromagnetic compatibility
(EMC) and electrical, mechanical, and thermal safety of any device hardware components.
(4) Any device hardware components that are skin-contacting must be demonstrated to be
biocompatible.
(5) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed. Software
documentation must include:
(i) Full characterization of the technical specifications of the software, including the
detection algorithm and its inputs and outputs.
(ii) A description of the expected impact of all applicable sensor acquisition hardware
characteristics, associated hardware specifications, and processing software; and
(iii) A description of all mitigations for failure of any subsystem components (including
signal detection, signal analysis, data display, and storage) on output accuracy.
(6) Human factors and usability testing must demonstrate the following:
(i) The user can correctly use the device based solely on reading the directions for use;
and
(ii) The user can correctly interpret the device output and understand when to seek
medical care.
(7) Labeling must include:
(i) A description of what the device measures and outputs to the user;
(ii) Hardware platform and operating system requirements;
(iii) The type of sensor data used, including specifications of compatible hardware used
for data acquisition;
(iv) Warnings identifying sensor acquisition factors or subject conditions or
characteristics that may impact measurement results;
(v) Information for interpretation of the measurements, including a statement that the
device is not intended to replace traditional methods of diagnosis (e.g.,
polysomnography) nor intended to be used as an apnea monitor;
(vi) A summary of the clinical performance testing with the device, including both the
device's overall performance as well as performance across all relevant subgroups.
BENEFIT-RISK DETERMINATION
Sleep apnea is a severely underdiagnosed disease, with as much as 90% of the population living
with sleep apnea undiagnosed'. Studies demonstrate that the prevalence of moderate-to-severe
sleep apnea can be as high as 27.5% and has been steadily increasing in the past several
decades2•3.
De Novo Summary (DEN230041) Page 10 of 12A user may not realize that they are experiencing obstructive sleep apnea symptoms until after
they have spoken with a clinician, receive a referral to a sleep specialist, and wait 2 to 10 months
for a sleep study4. It is estimated that only 20% of patients report their sleep-related symptoms to
their primary care physician to initiate obstructive sleep apnea testing5. Due to high barriers to
diagnosis and treatment, patients may decide that it is not worth the time and effort to pursue a
diagnosis and therefore remain undiagnosed and untreated.
The Samsung Sleep Apnea Feature provides users with an accessible assessment for this
underdiagnosed disease, providing evidence to encourage the user to pursue clinical attention
toward necessary diagnosis and treatment. By encouraging the general population to be more
cognizant of their sleep condition, the device can reduce the negative consequences of
undiagnosed obstructive sleep apnea.
Both the clinical and usability risks of the device have been evaluated and use of the device itself
presents no significant direct risks to the users. Like other disease assessment devices, the key
clinical risks of this proposed device are false positive and false negative classifications. False
positive result can lead to user inconvenience, unnecessary additional testing and a burden to the
medical system. False negatives may lead the user to think that they do not need to consult a
clinician when they have moderate-to-severe sleep apnea. These risks were quantified by
sensitivity and specificity in the clinical study, which demonstrated the device's safety and
effectiveness in identifying the two sleep apnea classes.
The Usability Engineering Report supports the conclusion that the Samsung Sleep Apnea Feature
can be used safely and effectively by the intended users, for the intended uses, and in the
intended use environments. The device's UI elements reinforce to the user that they should
contact their physician if they have sleep-related symptoms, mitigating the risk of false
negatives. The study also demonstrated that users understand the non-diagnostic nature of the
device, as well as to contact a healthcare professional if the device shows signs of moderate-to-
severe OSA or if they are experiencing symptoms related to OSA, regardless of the device
results.
Patient Perspectives
This submission did not include specific information on patient perspectives for this device.
Benefit/Risk Conclusion
In conclusion, given the available information above, for the following indication statement:
The Sleep Apnea Feature is an over-the-counter (OTC) software-only, mobile medical
application operating on a compatible Samsung Galaxy Watch and Phone.
This feature is intended to detect signs of moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnea in
the form of significant breathing disruptions in adult users 22 years and older, over a two-
night monitoring period. It is intended for on demand use.
De Novo Summary (DEN230041) Page 11 of 12This feature is not intended for users who have previously been diagnosed with sleep
apnea. Users should not use this feature to replace traditional methods of diagnosis and
treatment by a qualified clinician. The data provided by this device is also not intended to
assist clinicians in diagnosing sleep disorders.
The probable benefits outweigh the probable risks for the Sleep Apnea Feature. The device
provides benefits, and the risks can be mitigated by the use of general controls and the identified
special controls.
References
1. Finkel KJ, Searleman AC, Tymkew H, Tanaka CY, Saager L, Safer-Zadeh E, Bottros M,
Selvidge JA, Jacobsohn E, Pulley D, Duntley S, Becker C, Avidan MS. Prevalence of
undiagnosed obstructive sleep apnea among adult surgical patients in an academic
medical center. Sleep Med. 2009 Aug;10(7):753-8. doi: 10.1016/j.sleep.2008.08.007.
Epub 2009 Jan 30. PMID: 19186102.
2. Peppard, Paul E., et al. "Increased prevalence of sleep-disordered breathing in adults."
American journal of epidemiology 177.9 (2013): 1006-1014.
3. Heinzer, Raphael, et al. "Prevalence of sleep-disordered breathing in the general
population: the HypnoLaus study." The Lancet Respiratory Medicine 3.4 (2015): 310-
318.
4. Flemons, W. Ward, et al. "Access to diagnosis and treatment of patients with suspected
sleep apnea." American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 169.6 (2004):
668-672.
5. US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for Obstructive Sleep Apnea in Adults:
US Preventive Services Task Force Recommendation Statement. JAMA.
2022;328(19):1945-1950. doi:10.1001/jama.2022.20304
CONCLUSION
The De Novo request for the Sleep Apnea Feature is granted, and the device is classified as
follows:
Product Code: QZW
Device Type: Over-the-counter device to assess risk of sleep apnea.
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 868.2378
Class: II
De Novo Summary (DEN230041) Page 12 of 12