DE NOVO CLASSIFICATION REQUEST FOR
NAVICAM PROSCAN
REGULATORY INFORMATION
FDA identifies this generic type of device as:
Gastrointestinal capsule endoscopy analysis software device. A gastrointestinal
capsule endoscopy analysis software device is used to analyze pre-recorded capsule
endoscopy videos of the gastrointestinal tract that are suspected of containing lesions.
This device uses software algorithms to identify images and areas of interest as outputs to
aid the clinician in analyzing suspected lesions, for clinician review of device outputs.
The device may include hardware to support interfacing with a capsule imaging system.
NEW REGULATION NUMBER: 21 CFR 876.1540
CLASSIFICATION: Class II
PRODUCT CODE: QZF
BACKGROUND
DEVICE NAME: NaviCam ProScan
SUBMISSION NUMBER: DEN230027
DATE DE NOVO RECEIVED: April 14, 2023
SPONSOR INFORMATION:
Ankon Technologies Co., Ltd
B3-2, B3-3, D3-4 Biolake, No.666, Hi-Tech Road
East Lake New Technology Development Zone
Wuhan, 430075 Hubei, China
INDICATIONS FOR USE
The NaviCam ProScan is indicated as follows:
NaviCam ProScan is an artificial intelligence (AI) assisted reading tool designed to aid
small bowel capsule endoscopy reviewers in decreasing the time to review capsule
endoscopy images for adult patients in whom the capsule endoscopy images were
obtained for suspected small bowel bleeding. The clinician is responsible for conducting
their own assessment of the findings of the AI-assisted reading through review of the
entire video, as clinically appropriate. ProScan also assists small bowel capsule
endoscopy reviewers in identifying the digestive tract location (oral cavity and beyond,esophagus, stomach, small bowel) of the image in adults. This tool is not intended to
replace clinical decision making.
LIMITATIONS
The sale, distribution, and use of NaviCam ProScan are restricted to prescription use in
accordance with 21 CFR 801.109.
The device is not intended to be used as a stand-alone diagnostic device or replace
clinical decision making.
ProScan should only be used with NaviCam Small Bowel Capsule Endoscopy System.
In the clinical study of the device, performance (sensitivity and specificity) of the device
in the absence of clinician input was not evaluated. Therefore, the AI standalone
performance in the clinical study of NaviCam ProScan has not been established. The
clinician is responsible for making the final clinical diagnosis.
Negative or normal result, as determined by ProScan alone, does not exclude the
presence of small bowel disease (false negative). Similarly, positive or abnormal result,
as determined by ProScan alone, does not automatically confirm the presence of small
bowel disease (false positive). The clinician should always carefully review the entire
video. If symptoms persist, further evaluation should be performed.
ProScan is not intended to characterize lesions in a manner that would potentially
replace biopsy sampling or other characterization tools.
PLEASE REFER TO THE LABELING FOR A COMPLETE LIST OF WARNINGS,
PRECAUTIONS AND CONTRAINDICATIONS.
DEVICE DESCRIPTION
The NaviCam ProScan is artificial intelligence software that has been trained to process capsule
endoscopy images of the small bowel acquired by the NaviCam Small Bowel Capsule
Endoscopy System to recognize the various sections of the digestive tract and to recognize and
mark images containing suspected abnormal lesions.
NaviCam ProScan is intended to be used as an adjunct to the ESView software of the NaviCam
Small Bowel Capsule Endoscopy System (both cleared in K221590) and is not intended to
replace gastroenterologist assessment or histopathological sampling.
NaviCam ProScan does not make any modification or alteration to the original capsule
endoscopy video. It only overlays graphical markers and includes an option to only display these
identified images. The whole small bowel capsule endoscopy video and highlighted regions still
must be independently assessed by the clinician and appropriate actions taken according to
standard clinical practice.
De Novo Summary (DEN230027) Page 2 of 16The NaviCam ProScan software includes two main algorithms, as illustrated in Figure 1 below:
• Digestive tract site recognition, which includes an image analysis algorithm and site
segmentation algorithm to determine: oral and beyond, esophagus, stomach, and small
bowel. Tract site is displayed as a color code on the video timeline with descriptions on
the indicators at the bottom of the software user interface.
• Small bowel lesion recognition, which includes the small bowel lesion image analysis
algorithm with lesion region localization. Potential lesions are marked with a bounding
box as illustrated in Figure 2 below, with the active video played at the top section of the
figure, and ProScan-identified images in the lower section, which includes images with
suspected lesions and individual images marking the transition in the digestive tract. The
algorithm is functional only on those sections of the GI tract that were identified as
“small bowel” by the digestive tract site recognition software function.
Figure 1: Working Principle of NaviCam ProScan
Figure 2: Lesion Recognition
Both software algorithms are based on convolutional neural networks using different deep
learning models.
De Novo Summary (DEN230027) Page 3 of 16SUMMARY OF NONCLINICAL/BENCH STUDIES
SOFTWARE/CYBERSECURITY
NaviCam ProScan was identified as having a moderate level of concern as defined in the
FDA guidance document “Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for
Software Contained in Medical Devices.” The software documentation included:
1. Software/Firmware Description
2. Device Hazard Analysis
3. Software Requirement Specifications
4. Architecture Design Chart
5. Software Design Specifications
6. Traceability
7. Software Development Environment Description
8. Verification and Validation Documentation
9. Revision Level History
10. Unresolved Anomalies
Risk analysis was provided for the software with a description of the hazards, their causes
and severity as well as acceptable methods for control of the identified risks. NaviCam
ProScan provided a description, with test protocols including pass/fail criteria and report
of results, of acceptable verification and validation activities at the unit, integration and
system level. These evaluations include performance, functional, UI, security,
installation, compatibility, and regression testing associated with the software
implementation into the primary ESView application. All testing met design
specifications and passed successfully. This testing is not part of the AI performance
evaluation.
Regarding the cybersecurity, documentation included all the recommended information
from the FDA guidance document “Content of Premarket Submissions for Management
of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices.” This includes a threat model, cybersecurity
mitigation information, a malware-free shipping plan, an upgrade plan, and other
information for safeguarding the algorithms.
PERFORMANCE TESTING – BENCH – STANDALONE PERFORMANCE
The optimization, training, and validation of the NaviCam ProScan was performed in
several phases, as summarized below.
Algorithm Training
In the training phase, the NaviCam ProScan was trained to recognize abnormal small
bowel images and to recognize the digestive tract site. A dataset of 2,642 patients that
underwent small bowel capsule endoscopy with NaviCam Small Bowel Capsule
Endoscopy System, obtained from 8 clinical institutions in China, was collected.
De Novo Summary (DEN230027) Page 4 of 16Of those 2,642 patients, the dataset was split so that 1,476 patients were used for training
the lesion detection function, and 218 patients were used in internal testing for the lesion
detection function (see Standalone Algorithm Testing section, below), with full
demographics information shown in Table 1 below. For tract site recognition, the 2,642
patient dataset was split so that 1,386 patients were used for training the tract site
recognition function, and 424 patients were used in internal testing of the tract site
recognition function (see Standalone Algorithm Testing section, below), with full
demographics information shown in Table 2 below. Please note that patients used for
training do not overlap with patients used for corresponding testing of that software
function. However there may be overlap in selection of patients for training for lesion
detection function and training/testing of the tract site recognition function, and overlap
in selection of patients for training of the tract site recognition function and
training/testing of the lesion detection function.
Table 1: Lesion Detection Function
Training Testing
(No. of subjects = (No. of subjects =
1,476) 218)
Age (years):
Mean Age (SD) 47.7 (9.8) 48.4 (9.8)
Age range 12~91 15~91
Sex:
Male 977 151
Female 478 62
Unknown 21 5
Race/Ethnicity:
White or Caucasian 0 0
Black or African American 0 0
Hispanic or Latino 0 0
Asian 1476 218
Native Hawaiian or other
0 0
Pacific Islander
Table 2: Tract Site Recognition Function
Training
Testing (No. of
(No. of subjects =
subjects =424)
1,386
Age (years):
Mean Age (SD) 48.1(12.6) 47.3(11.6)
Age range 15~97 11~84
Sex:
Male 898 342
Female 488 82
Unknown 0 0
Race/Ethnicity:
White or Caucasian 0 0
Black or African American 0 0
De Novo Summary (DEN230027) Page 5 of 16Hispanic or Latino 0 0
Asian 1386 424
Native Hawaiian or other
0 0
Pacific Islander
Images for the dataset were labelled as follows:
Lesion Detection Function
Pre-Annotation (Initial Labeling) Process:
Full videos were randomly assigned to three gastroenterologists for the annotation of
small bowel images. The doctors annotate one or multiple positive lesion image
segments and one or multiple negative image segments for each video. These positive
lesion image segments and negative image segments constitute the full video of the small
bowel for objects. All positive lesion image segments are independently numbered and
randomly sampled. Similarly, all negative image segments are independently numbered
and randomly sampled. These two parts, obtained through sampling, form the annotated
image dataset of the small bowel.
Annotation (Truthing) Process:
The image dataset obtained from the pre-annotation process is annotated by the three
gastroenterologists using annotation software in a back-to-back manner. The computer
automatically determines consistency and merges the classification results while
preserving differing opinions. When the cutoff value for consistency is less than 3, two
arbitration experts independently review and modify the classification results, correcting
any missed diagnoses, misdiagnoses, or misjudgments. If difficult questions arise, the
arbitration experts engage in collective discussion and confirmation.
Tract Site Recognition Function
Pre-Annotation (Initial Labeling) Process:
Full video data is randomly assigned to three experts. The experts mark the boundary
positions of each site (including Oral Cavity and beyond, Esophagus, Stomach, and Small
Bowel) within each video. For example, the boundary position where the first image
enters the esophagus, the first image enters the stomach, and the first image enters the
small bowel. These four sets of images form a complete video. Each set of images is
individually labeled and randomly sampled. The site annotation data is generated by
randomly sampling all site data.
Annotation (Truthing) Process:
The image dataset obtained from the pre-annotation process is annotated by three
gastroenterologists using annotation software in a blinded manner. They annotate the
classification labels for the four sites (including Oral Cavity and beyond, Esophagus,
Stomach, and Small Bowel). The computer automatically determines the consistency and
merges the classification results while preserving differing opinions. When the
consistency cutoff value is less than 3, two adjudication experts independently review
and modify the classification results, correcting any missed diagnoses, misdiagnoses, or
misjudgments. In case of difficult cases, collective discussions and confirmations are
conducted by the adjudication experts.
De Novo Summary (DEN230027) Page 6 of 16Standalone Algorithm Testing
1. Lesion detection function
Following the training phase, the performance of the NaviCam ProScan to correctly
recognize abnormal small bowel images was tested. For this purpose, 218 patients from
the dataset described above were selected for testing, with results provided in Table 3
below. From that same dataset, normal and abnormal small bowel capsule endoscopy
images were used to test the algorithm, with results provided in Table 4 below.
A. Patient-level analysis
Table 3: Patient-level Analysis Results
Expert Reading
Normal Abnormal
ProScan Normal 33 2
Prediction Abnormal 56 127
Patient-level sensitivity and specificity were determined to be 98% (95% CI: 93.95%-
99.71%) and 37% (95%CI: 27.27%-48.02%), respectively. Subgroup analyses for
patient-level sensitivity and specificity did not identify major differences when analyzed
by gender, age, or lesion type.
Figure 3: Patient-Level ROC and AUC Analysis
The patient-level ROC analysis, shown in Figure 3 above, is based on the assumption of
worst-case device failure analysis, where the AI algorithm identifies a case as positive if
it detects at least one positive image.
De Novo Summary (DEN230027) Page 7 of 16B. Image-level analysis
Table 4: Image-level Analysis Results
Expert Reading
Normal Abnormal
ProScan Normal 14743 179
Prediction Abnormal 372 3439
Image level analysis refers to the analysis of the dataset consisting of normal (no lesion
present) and abnormal (lesion present) images. This dataset may include multiple images
of the same lesion from different angles. Image level sensitivity and specificity were
determined to be 95.05% (95% CI: 94.28%-95.72%) and 97.54% (95% CI: 97.28%-
97.78%), respectively. ROC and AUC analysis is shown below in Figure 4.
Figure 4: Image-Level ROC and AUC Analysis
Conclusions from Lesion Detection Testing
Patient-level sensitivity was high, at 98%, demonstrating that the lesion detection
function resulted in few false negatives for patients. Patient level specificity was 37%,
suggesting that clinicians will need to carefully review ProScan findings to identify false
positive predictions. Lesion-level (or object-level) sensitivity and specificity are
unknown. Patients may have multiple true positive lesions. The lack of lesion-level data
introduces uncertainty regarding the ability of the device to detect individual lesions. At
the image-level, results demonstrate sensitivity of 95.05% and specificity of 97.54%.
2. Tract Site Testing
Following the training phase, the performance of the NaviCam ProScan to recognize the
tract site (oral cavity and beyond, esophagus, stomach, or small bowel) was tested. For
this purpose, 424 patients from the dataset described above were selected for testing. The
performance of the site recognition model at the image level was tested using four
categories of digestive tract sites: Oral Cavity and beyond, Esophagus, Stomach, and
De Novo Summary (DEN230027) Page 8 of 16Small Bowel. The digestive tract images captured by capsule endoscopy exhibit a
sequential relationship. Based on this sequential relationship and the results of image site
classification, all digestive tract images were divided into four groups. Subsequently, the
boundaries between different digestive tract sites, namely esophagus, stomach, or small
bowel, were determined based on these groups, with results shown in Table 5 below.
Table 5: Tract Recognition – Image-level Analysis Results
Expert Reading
Oral Cavity Small
Esophagus Stomach
and beyond bowel
Oral Cavity
3216 25 39 50
and beyond
ProScan Prediction Esophagus 11 704 5 24
Stomach 5 10 17215 306
Small Bowel 2 1 48 2986
Sensitivity and specificity were calculated for each category of anatomical site
recognition (including Oral Cavity and beyond, Esophagus, Stomach, and Small Bowel)
using a binary classification approach, with results shown in Table 6 below. The current
category being evaluated is considered as positive, while the other categories are
considered as negative. The Youden index is used to determine the optimal threshold, and
sensitivity and specificity values are calculated accordingly. The prediction result of
ProScan based on the confusion matrix are obtained by selecting the maximum
probability value among the four anatomical site classifications for each image, and these
predictions are used for statistical analysis and the final threshold setting for the device.
Table 6: Sensitivity and Specificity for Tract Site Recognition
Sensitivity (95% CI) Specificity (95% CI)
Oral cavity and beyond 99.47% (99.14%-99.68%) 99.50% (99.39%-99.58%)
Esophagus 98.92% (97.79%-99.50%) 99.10% (98.98%-99.22%)
Stomach 99.60% (99.49%-98.69%) 99.06% (98.80%-99.26%)
Small Bowel 99.26% (98.89%-99.51%) 98.36% (98.18%-98.52%)
Conclusions from Tract Site Recognition Testing
Based on the actual test results, the site recognition sensitivity and specificity values for
each site (including Oral Cavity and beyond, Esophagus, Stomach, and Small Bowel) are
all above 98%.
SUMMARY OF CLINICAL INFORMATION
Retrospective Evaluation
In a retrospective evaluation, two independent reviewers in China read capsule endoscopy
images from 87 patients. The image review time of NaviCam reading with and without the
ProScan feature on was assessed. The NaviCam SB System with ProScan feature on significantly
De Novo Summary (DEN230027) Page 9 of 16reduced the physician’s reading time compared to the reading time of the NaviCam SB System
without the ProScan on (21.47±8.05 vs. 58.10±45.28, p<0.0001).
Role of Artificial intelligence in Capsule Endoscopy for the identification of small bowel
lesions in patients with small intestinal bleeding: the first prospective, multicenter trial
(ARTIC Study).
Primary aim of this study was to assess the non-inferiority of the diagnostic yield (DY) for
detection of significant small bowel (SB) pathology from three different readings of the small
bowel capsule videos: clinicians reading videos with AI assistance from ProScan (described as
AI+Physician below), conventional/standard video reading without AI assistance, and an expert
board reading and adjudication of videos. Diagnostic yield is defined as the number of positive
patients (as determined by interpretation of capsule images for significant small bowel
pathology) divided by the total number of patients. Secondary aim was to compare mean reading
time of the AI-assisted and standard reading modalities.
From February 2021 to January 2022, 137 patients were prospectively enrolled in 7 European
centers to perform small bowel capsule endoscopy with the NaviCam SB system, which is
provided with a convolutional neural network (CNN)-based function (ProScan software) for
analysis of images for lesions. 22 clinician readers from 7 different European countries
participated in the study. All readers had capsule endoscopy experience of over 500 readings.
All capsule videos were first evaluated in the enrollment center without AI assistance (standard
reading). Anonymized videos were then randomly assigned to another center for a second
blinded reading that was performed with the AI. In the AI+Physician arm, the clinicians were
presented with the AI output, but made their own determination of SB pathology, and may have
overruled the output from the AI. Finally, main diagnoses (small bowel lesions with high -P2- to
moderate -P1- bleeding potential according to Saurin classification) and mean reading time
reported by readers in the AI+Physician arm and Standard reading arm were compared by an
expert board, who was used also to adjudicate the findings in case of disagreement. The
participants on the expert board consisted of 5 of the original 22 readers. Expert board readings
were used as the ground truth to measure the diagnostic performance of the readers and the
software.
RESULTS: 133 patients from Italy, France, Germany, Hungary, Spain, Sweden, and UK were
included in the final analysis (demographics in Table 7 below). Race/ethnicity of study
participants was not collected. Four patients were excluded (2 due to missing documentation, 1
unable to swallow, and 1 due to device technical failure). The completion rate, defined as having
the capsule reach the cecum, was 84.2%.
Table 7: ARTIC Study Patient Demographics
Overall (No. of
subjects = 133)
Age (years):
Mean (SD) 66.5 (± 14.4)
Age range 24-101
Sex:
Male 60
De Novo Summary (DEN230027) Page 10 of 16Overall (No. of
subjects = 133)
Female 73
The expert board reading identified P1+P2 lesions in 105 patients out of 133 patients (DY 78.2%
[95% CI: 71.0% - 85.5%]). Standard readings and AI+Physician readings were compared to the
expert board readings and discordant cases were re-evaluated and eventually reclassified during
the adjudication phase. To note, all lesions missed in the standard reading arm were detected in
the AI+Physician reading arm. At per-patient analysis, diagnostic yields for P1+P2 lesions were
62.4% (95% CI: 53.6% - 70.7%) and 73.7% (95% CI: 65.3% - 80.9%), for standard readings and
AI+Physician readings, respectively (p=0.015). AI+Physician reading did not identify 7 patients
in whom a small bowel pathology was identified by the expert board reading (i.e., there were 7
false negatives). Physician analysis of images resulted in no false positive patients, in both the
standard reading arm as well as the AI+Physician reading arm, demonstrating the ability of
physicians to correctly rule out false positives. The results are presented in Table 8 below. The
number of false positive predictions from the AI software (in the absence of physician input) is
unknown. Mean SB reading time was 33 minutes and 42 seconds (± 22 minutes and 51 seconds)
in standard reading and 3 minutes and 50 seconds (± 3 minutes and 20 seconds) in AI-assisted
reading (p < 0.001).
Table 8: ARTIC Study Reading Results
Expert Board
Comparison of Identification of Reading Diagnostic Yield (95%
Total
significant SB pathology to Expert Identification of CI)
Board Reading SB Pathology
Yes No
Expert Board Reading 105 28 N/A 78.2% (71.0%, 85.5%)
Standard reading mode Yes 83 0 83
62.4% (53.6%, 70.7%)
(physician alone) No 22 28 50
AI+Physician reading mode Yes 98 0 98
73.7% (65.3%,80.9%)
(physician + ProScan) No 7 28 35
CONCLUSION: AI+Physician reading resulted in non-inferior diagnostic yield compared to the
expert board reading and the standard reading mode, demonstrating that the use of ProScan does
not negatively impact identification of patients with small bowel pathology. However, the mean
reading time was significantly decreased with the AI+Physician reading, as compared to the
standard reading.
Pediatric Extrapolation
In this De Novo request, existing clinical data were not leveraged to support the use of the device
in a pediatric patient population.
De Novo Summary (DEN230027) Page 11 of 16POSTMARKET SURVEILLANCE
In order to satisfy special control (1) below, NaviCam must collect and report postmarket
surveillance data acquired under anticipated conditions of use to demonstrate that the device
performs as intended when used to analyze data from the intended patient population.
Specifically, the sponsor must conduct postmarket clinical validation performance testing to
demonstrate the performance of the NaviCam ProScan lesion detection feature with physician
input in the intended patient population, at the lesion-level, image-level, and patient-level, and
demonstrate the performance of the NaviCam ProScan anatomic tract site recognition function at
the object-level.
FDA expects that the postmarket clinical validation performance testing will address the
performance of NaviCam ProScan (with physician input), as compared to a standard unassisted
read using a clinically justified ground truth, on:
• Lesion-level, image-level, and patient-level analysis for lesion detection feature,
including relevant FROC (free response receiver operating characteristic) analysis, ROC
(receiver operating characteristic) analysis, sensitivity, specificity, and confusion
matrices, as applicable and provide additional analysis for these endpoints for ProScan
outputs (before physician input); and
• Object-level ROC analysis for anatomic tract site recognition function, including
sensitivity, specificity, and confusion matrices, as applicable.
LABELING
The labeling includes a detailed description of the device, description of the patient population
for which the device is indicated for use, and instructions for use. The labeling also includes
summary information, including patient demographics, on the algorithm training, the non-
clinical standalone performance testing and the clinical performance testing of the device in the
ARTIC study.
The labeling includes limitations and warnings that prohibit the device from diagnosis or
characterization of the lesions, and that the images and data acquired using the device are to be
interpreted only by qualified medical professionals. There is a warning that the device should not
replace clinician decision-making. There is also a warning regarding overreliance on the device.
Labeling will be updated in accordance with data collected via postmarket surveillance to
provide updated clinical performance data and effectiveness data of the device.
RISKS TO HEALTH
The table below identifies the risks to health that may be associated with use of a gastrointestinal
capsule endoscopy analysis software device and the measures necessary to mitigate these risks.
De Novo Summary (DEN230027) Page 12 of 16Risks to Health Mitigation Measures
Algorithm failure leading to: Clinical performance testing
• False positive resulting in unnecessary Postmarket surveillance
patient treatment; or Standalone algorithm performance testing
• False negatives resulting in delayed or Software verification, validation, and hazard
lack of patient treatment; or analysis
• Missed analysis due to misclassification Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) testing
of tract site resulting in delayed Electrical safety, thermal safety, and
treatment mechanical safety testing
Labeling
False positive or false negative due to user Clinical performance testing
overreliance on the device Postmarket surveillance
Labeling
SPECIAL CONTROLS
In combination with the general controls of the FD&C Act, the gastrointestinal capsule
endoscopy analysis software device is subject to the following special controls:
(1) Data obtained from premarket clinical performance validation testing and postmarket
surveillance acquired under anticipated conditions of use must demonstrate that the
device performs as intended when used to analyze data from the intended patient
population, unless FDA determines based on the totality of the information provided
for premarket review that data from postmarket surveillance is not required. The
following must be met:
(i) Validation must use a clinical test dataset acquired from a representative patient
population. Data must be representative of the range of data sources and data
quality likely to be encountered in the intended use population and relevant use
conditions in the intended use environment. Establishment of ground truth must
be clinically justified. Study protocols must include a description of the
process(es) for determining ground truth of training and test datasets;
(ii) Objective performance measures (e.g., patient-level, lesion-level, and image-
level data) with corresponding confusion matrices and statistical analyses must
be reported with relevant descriptive or developmental performance measures.
Summary level demographic information for study subjects and clinicians and
sub-group analyses must be provided for each study site, relevant demographic
sub-groups, and acquisition systems;
(iii) The test dataset must be from sites that are different from sites used in training or
development of the model; and
(iv) Adverse events must be reported.
(2) Performance testing of the algorithm (i.e., standalone performance of the device itself,
in the absence of any interaction with a clinician) must be provided.
(3) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be provided. Software
description must include a detailed, technical description including the impact of any
software and hardware on the device’s functions, the associated capabilities and
De Novo Summary (DEN230027) Page 13 of 16limitations of each part, the associated inputs and outputs, and mapping of the software
architecture.
(4) Performance data must demonstrate electromagnetic compatibility, electrical safety,
mechanical safety, and thermal safety for any hardware components of the device.
(5) Labeling must include:
(i) Warnings to avoid overreliance on the device, including that findings, or the lack
thereof, should be reviewed by the clinician; that the device is not intended to be
used as a standalone diagnostic device; and that the device does not replace
clinical decision-making; and
(ii) A summary of the performance testing methods, including tested hardware,
tested/supported patient population, results of the performance testing for tested
performance measures/metrics with statistical analysis, summary-level
descriptions of patient and clinician demographics and associated subgroup
analyses for training and test datasets;
(iii) According to the timeframe specified in any postmarket surveillance protocol
approved by FDA to satisfy the requirements in paragraph (1) of this section, a
detailed summary of the postmarket surveillance data must be provided,
including updates to the labeling to accurately reflect device performance based
upon data collected during the postmarket surveillance experience.
BENEFIT-RISK DETERMINATION
Risks and Other Factors
The risks of the device are based on data collected in the ARTIC clinical study and standalone
performance testing described above.
The use of NaviCam ProScan in conjunction with clinician reading demonstrated non-inferiority
to standard reading. There remains risk of overreliance on the device, which may result in a
missed diagnosis or improper diagnosis. The device is only intended to support the clinician
without making clinical decisions. The clinical study results show that the AI+Physician reading
resulted in 7 false negatives, meaning that the software with physician did not identify those
patients as having suspected lesions despite presenting the condition. To compare, standard
reading without AI resulted in 22 false negatives. This result indicates that the AI+physician use
of the device is no worse than traditional capsule reading but remains imperfect. Without careful
evaluation, suspected small bowel lesions may still be missed.
While no false positives were identified in the clinical study, there remains a probable likelihood
that a normal image may be incorrectly identified as having lesions. This is evident from the
standalone performance testing, which demonstrated a high patient-level false positive rate being
output by the device. Clinician input is therefore an important part of device use, and clinical
experience will impact the evaluation of these patients.
Benefits
The probable benefits of the device are also based on data collected in the clinical studies as
described above.
De Novo Summary (DEN230027) Page 14 of 16Both studies evaluated the reading time with and without assistance from NaviCam ProScan. In
the retrospective study, NaviCam SB System with ProScan significantly reduced the physician's
reading time compared to NaviCam SB System without ProScan (21.47 minutes ± 8.05 vs. 58.10
± 45.28, p < 0.0001). Similarly, in the ARTIC study, mean SB reading time was 33 minutes and
42 seconds (± 22 minutes and 51 seconds) in standard reading and 3 minutes and 50 seconds (± 3
minutes and 20 seconds) in the AI+Physician arm (p < 0.001). These results indicate that
NaviCam ProScan has demonstrated the ability to reduce reading time while maintaining
comparable outcomes to standard of care reading. By reducing read times, patients can receive
faster turnaround in receiving a diagnosis from clinicians, allowing for more timely treatments as
well.
Uncertainty
There remains uncertainty in the clinical study. The study did not assess device performance
without clinician input. A postmarket study will be conducted to address the residual uncertainty
regarding the ProScan’s contributions to the readings in the clinical study. The postmarket study
will characterize the ProScan’s performance before clinician input, in a dataset independent from
the training dataset. The data will be used to update the labeling describing performance of the
ProScan. While the NaviCam ProScan is only intended for use with a clinician, results of the
study will enable physicians to have a better understanding of their contributions and the
ProScan’s contributions when reading small bowel videos, and address the generalizability of
device performance in additional patient populations, separate from those used for algorithm
development.
All readers in the ARTIC study were highly experienced and well-qualified. The impact of over-
reliance on the device may have been less pronounced, given their experience reading these
videos. Among clinicians with limited experience in capsule endoscopy, the impact of over-
reliance may be more applicable.
The ARTIC study was limited to a European population, while the internal study was limited to
an Asian population. While this information supports a basic assessment of algorithm
generalizability across different patient populations, we cannot exclude the possibility of
unaddressed variables associated with these differences. For example, different lesion types may
be more prevalent among certain ethnic groups. Based on the studies provided in this
submission, it is unknown how well this variability has been addressed. If the algorithm were
initially trained on a more diverse population – and evaluated in a similarly diverse followup
study – the impact of this variability may be more properly understood.
In addition, the performance of tract site recognition was not evaluated in this study. While risks
associated with this function are minimal, images incorrectly classified as being outside the small
bowel carry the possibility of not being evaluated by the device, resulting in no AI reading for
the impacted images.
Conclusion
It is a well-known fact that capsule endoscopy is a time-consuming procedure. Successive reads
may result in reviewer fatigue, further impacting effectiveness of clinician reading performance.
NaviCam ProScan has demonstrated its ability to improve on reading time without being inferior
De Novo Summary (DEN230027) Page 15 of 16to standard of care capsule endoscopy. Despite the existence of uncertainty, there is unlikely to
be a negative impact on the procedural outcomes.
Based on the information above, the probable benefits of NaviCam ProScan outweigh the
probable risks in light of the listed special controls and the general controls.
Patient Perspectives
This submission did not include specific information on patient perspectives for this device.
Benefit/Risk Conclusion
In conclusion, given the available information above, for the following indication statement:
NaviCam ProScan is an AI assisted reading tool designed to aid small bowel capsule
endoscopy reviewers in decreasing the time to review capsule endoscopy images for adult
patients in whom the capsule endoscopy images were obtained for suspected small bowel
bleeding. The clinician is responsible for conducting their own assessment of the findings
of the AI-assisted reading through review of the entire video, as clinically appropriate.
ProScan also assists small bowel capsule endoscopy reviewers in identifying the
digestive tract location (oral cavity and beyond, esophagus, stomach, small bowel) of the
image in adults. This tool is not intended to replace clinical decision making.
The probable benefits outweigh the probable risks for the NaviCam ProScan. The device
provides benefits and the risks can be mitigated by the use of general and the identified special
controls.
CONCLUSION
The De Novo request for the NaviCam ProScan is granted and the device is classified as follows:
Product Code: QZF
Device Type: Gastrointestinal capsule endoscopy analysis software device
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 876.1540
Class: II
De Novo Summary (DEN230027) Page 16 of 16