DE NOVO CLASSIFICATION REQUEST FOR
COGNOA ASD DIAGNOSIS AID
REGULATORY INFORMATION
FDA identifies this generic type of device as:
Pediatric Autism Spectrum Disorder diagnosis aid. A pediatric Autism Spectrum
Disorder diagnosis aid is a prescription device that is intended for use as an aid in the
diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder in pediatric patients.
NEW REGULATION NUMBER: 21 CFR 882.1491
CLASSIFICATION: Class II
PRODUCT CODE: QPF
BACKGROUND
DEVICE NAME: Cognoa ASD Diagnosis Aid
SUBMISSION NUMBER: DEN200069
DATE DE NOVO RECEIVED: November 3, 2020
SPONSOR INFORMATION:
Cognoa, Inc.
2185 Park Blvd.
Palo Alto, California 94306
INDICATIONS FOR USE
The Cognoa ASD Diagnosis Aid is intended for use by healthcare providers as an aid in the
diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) for patients ages 18 months through 72 months
who are at risk for developmental delay based on concerns of a parent, caregiver, or healthcare
provider.
The device is not intended for use as a stand-alone diagnostic device but as an adjunct to the
diagnostic process.
LIMITATIONS
The sale, distribution, and use of the device are restricted to prescription use in
accordance with 21 CFR 801.109.The device is not intended for use as a stand-alone diagnostic device but as an adjunct to
the diagnostic process.
The device is intended for use in conjunction with patient history, clinical observations,
and other clinical evidence the healthcare provider determines are necessary before
making clinical decisions. For instance, additional standardized testing may be sought to
confirm the device output, especially when the device result is not Positive or Negative
for ASD.
The device may give unreliable results if used in patients with other conditions that
would have excluded them from the clinical study. Among those conditions are the
following:
• Suspected auditory or visual hallucinations or with prior diagnosis of childhood
onset schizophrenia.
• Known deafness or blindness.
• Known physical impairment affecting their ability to use their hands.
• Major dysmorphic features or prenatal exposure to teratogens such as fetal
alcohol syndrome.
• History or diagnosis of genetic conditions (such as Rett’s syndrome or fragile X).
• Microcephaly.
• History or prior diagnosis of epilepsy or seizures.
• History of or suspected neglect.
• History of brain defect injury or insult requiring interventions such as surgery or
chronic medication.
PLEASE REFER TO THE LABELING FOR A COMPLETE LIST OF WARNINGS,
PRECAUTIONS AND CONTRAINDICATIONS.
DEVICE DESCRIPTION
The Cognoa ASD Diagnosis Aid is a software as a medical device (SaMD) that utilizes a
machine-learning algorithm that receives independent information from caregivers or parents,
trained analysts, and healthcare professionals (HCPs) to aid in the diagnosis of ASD. It consists
of multiple software applications and hardware platforms. Input data is acquired via a Mobile
App, a Video Analyst Portal, and a HCP Portal.
• Mobile App: User interface (UI) for the caregiver or parent to upload videos of the
patient via Wi-Fi connection and answer questions about key developmental behaviors.
Interfaces with Application Programming Interface (API) server for transmission and
management of patient data. Compatible with both iOS (versions 12 and 13) and Android
platforms (versions 9 and 10).
• Video Analyst Portal: UI for trained analysts to review uploaded patient videos
remotely and answer questions about the patients’ behaviors observed in the videos.
De Novo Summary (DEN200069) Page 2 of 10• HCP Portal: UI for the HCP to answer questions about key developmental behaviors for
the patient’s age group, view device output and access the interactive dashboard to view
all patient results, patient videos, answers to questionnaires administered and device
performance data. Compatible with computer operating systems macOS (Catalina or
Mojave) and Windows 10, and browsers Safari (versions 12 or 13) and Chrome (versions
84 or 85).
Following analysis of the input data, the Cognoa ASD Dia•gn osis Aid machine-learning
algorithm produces a single scalar value between ■ (b) (4) and (b) (4) which is then compared to preset
thresholds to determine the classification. If the value is greater than the upper threshold, then
the device output is ‘Positive for ASD.’ If the value is less than the lower threshold, then the
device output is ‘Negative for ASD.’ If the available information does not allow the algorithm to
render a reliable result, the device output is ‘No Result.’
SUMMARY OF NONCLINICAL/BENCH STUDIES
The Cognoa ASD Diagnosis Aid is a SaMD implemented on a general purpose computing
platform. Non-clinical or bench testing was generally not needed to evaluate the hardware that
the software is intended to be run on. Software documentation and a usability assessment were
both provided to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device.
SOFTWARE/CYBERSECURITY
Software verification and validation testing and documentation was provided according
to a MODERATE level of concern and FDA’s guidance document, “Guidance for the
Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical Devices” (May 11,
2005), to demonstrate that the device software performs as intended. Adequate
documentation describing the software, firmware, software specifications, architecture
design, software development environment, traceability, revision level history, and
unresolved anomalies conclude that the software will operate in the manner described in
the specifications. Hazard analysis characterized software and cybersecurity risks,
including device malfunction, measurement-related errors, protection of patient data
when stored or in transit (including data encryption), and unauthorized access by
malicious end users. The submission describes verification and validation testing to
address the potential hazards with satisfactory results. The device algorithm was provided
describing how the data are collected and analyzed by the underlying model that is
applied to produce the final device outputs.
Regarding the cybersecurity, the documentation included all the recommended
information from the FDA guidance document, “Content of Premarket Submissions for
Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices.” This includes a threat model,
cybersecurity mitigation information, an upgrade and maintenance plan, and other
information for safeguarding the device algorithms.
HUMAN FACTORS-USABILITY
An observational, simulated use study was performed in order to evaluate HCP
completion of critical tasks associated with use of the HCP Portal component of the
De Novo Summary (DEN200069) Page 3 of 10I(b) ( 4)
Cognoa ASD Diagnosis Aid. A total of primary care providers who completed
residency training in Pediatrics, Medicine/Pediatrics, or Family Practice and who see
pediatric patients were tested. Participants performed critical tasks across anticipated use
scenarios, including (1) login per the instructions in the labeling to ensure access to the
HCP Portal using user-specific account information and ability to locate the indications
for use, precautions and warnings in the HCP Portal Instructions for Use; (2) ensure
access to the patient dashboard for viewing patient data, labeling, and HCP Portal log-
out; (3) ensure completion of the patient questionnaire; and (4) to ensure the patient’s
results can be viewed and querying how the HCP interpreted the results provided for each
available device output (Positive for ASD, Negative for ASD, No Result).
A test moderator facilitated the testing, provided information regarding the test
procedures beforehand, and asked questions specific to each use scenario
evaluated. Specific to scenarios testing the use and interpretation of the device outputs,
participants were asked to access patient records, discuss their clinical interpretation of
each device output, and discuss how they would proceed with clinical decision making,
both in the event that the device output affirmed or differed from how the patient
presented clinically. Following completion of testing, post-evaluation interviews were
conducted using 10 open-ended, neutrally worded questions to evaluate clinical end user
perspectives of any use difficulties experienced during the testing.
Study results indicated that participants were able to complete identified critical tasks
associated with use of the device. All participants understood and were able to navigate
the labeling and recite or affirm understanding of the content. All participants were able
to access patient records, complete the questionnaire and submit responses. All
participants were able to access and review results, with 100% of participants reporting
being able to communicate an accurate understanding of each type of device output. In
response to probative inquiry, all clinical end users were able to communicate adequate
understanding of use of the device as an aid in diagnosis of ASD and that the device does
not provide a stand-alone diagnosis.
SUMMARY OF CLINICAL INFORMATION
Study Design
The clinical validation study was a prospective, double-blinded, single-arm study conducted at
14 sites in the United States [“Cognoa ASD Diagnosis Aid Validation Study”] to evaluate the
safety and effectiveness of the Cognoa ASD Diagnosis Aid to aid in the diagnosis of ASD, with
the comparator being the clinical reference standard. Both parents or caregivers and HCPs were
blinded to the results as provided by the device. Additionally, the parents or caregivers, trained
video analysts, and HCPs providing inputs to the device algorithm were blinded to data inputs
provided by each other.
Clinical Reference Standard
The clinical reference standard is the determination of clinical diagnosis based on the majority
assessment of up to three specialists. This involved diagnosis by a site-specific specialist using
the DSM-5 criteria, followed by validation via independent review by one or two central
specialist clinicians. After the diagnosing clinician on-site completed the patient assessment, the
De Novo Summary (DEN200069) Page 4 of 10patient case was reviewed by one central off-site reviewing specialist clinician who was provided
with the standardized medical history and physical form, and a video of the diagnostic encounter.
The diagnosing clinician was instructed to not state any diagnostic conclusion, decision on any
particular component of DSM-5 criteria, or diagnostic observation during the video of the
assessment. If the assessment of the reviewing specialist clinician agreed with that of the
diagnosing clinician, the diagnosis was considered validated and no further validation was
conducted. If the reviewing specialist clinician disagreed with the diagnosing clinician, then the
case was referred to a second reviewing specialist clinician. Majority rule was used to resolve
discrepancies between the two central reviewers and the site diagnosing specialist who all
evaluated the same subjects.
Inclusion Criteria
• Caregiver must be able to read, understand and sign the Informed Consent Form (ICF).
• Caregiver or HCP concern for developmental delay.
• Female or Male, ≥ 18 to < 72 months of age.
• Functional English capability in the home environment.
• Caregiver must have smartphone capabilities for downloading the Cognoa Research App.
• Participants must be willing to be videotaped as part of the diagnostic assessment by the
specialist clinician.
Exclusion Criteria
• Subjects with a prior diagnosis of ASD rendered by a healthcare professional.
• Subjects with suspected auditory or visual hallucinations or with prior diagnosis of
childhood onset schizophrenia.
• Subjects with deafness or blindness.
• Subjects with known physical impairments affecting their ability to use their hands.
• Subjects with major dysmorphic features or prenatal exposure to teratogens (such as fetal
alcohol syndrome).
• Subjects with history, suspicion, or diagnosis of genetic conditions (such as Rett’s
Syndrome or Fragile X).
• Subjects with microcephaly.
• Subjects with history or prior diagnosis of epilepsy or seizures.
• Subjects with a history of neglect.
• Subjects with a history of brain malformation, injury or insult requiring interventions
such as surgery or chronic medication.
• Subjects whose age on the date of enrollment is outside the target age range.
• Subjects or caregivers who have been previously enrolled in any Cognoa clinical study or
survey.
• Subjects whose medical records had been included in any internal Cognoa training or
validation sets.
Objectives
Primary Effectiveness Objective
De Novo Summary (DEN200069) Page 5 of 10• Achieve a composite of positive predictive value (PPV) greater than 65% and negative
predictive value (NPV) greater than 85% for the device in relation to the clinical
reference standard in the overall study population; and
• Measurement of the proportion of all patients for whom the device provides no result.
Secondary Effectiveness Objective
• Evaluate sensitivity of the device in relation to the clinical reference standard in the
overall study population; and
• Evaluate specificity of the device in relation to the clinical reference standard in the
overall study population.
Safety Objective
Adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) were collected and reported from
enrollment through completion of the reference diagnosis clinic visit.
Results
Enrollment: A total of 711 subjects were enrolled who signed the ICF, with 585 subjects having
completed all inputs to the device assessment. Of these 585 subjects, 425 subjects were
considered study completers (i.e., subjects who completed both the device assessment as well as
the specialist assessment per the clinical reference standard) (see Figure 1). The 425 subjects
who completed all study assessments per protocol was used as the analysis population for the
assessment of the study endpoints.
Subj~eor,.,,.mtcd
lt4=711)
\.
I
,I 1
-,,,
s.ubjects who completed all SUbfecls who did not complete
inp,ut:s to tile Cognaa Device all I puts to the Cognoa Device
(Nt58'51 ( •126]
~ ~
I
, l J.
"Swdy compl~ '\ r ~
.M
5ul)feicl!i who ,completed all SubJecb who did !IQ! co lete
'lnpuu to the CQgnoe tie.ice the speda Isl eval uatlon
<! Dd ~ spe-tli.!~~t e','<!lu.itlQn lrf~L~OI
(N:425]
_J
Figure 1. Study Subject Diagram
Effectiveness: Of the 425 subjects who completed both the device assessment as well as the
specialist assessment per the clinical reference standard, the device rendered either a positive or
negative diagnostic output in 135 subjects (32%). This corresponds to a ‘No Result’ device
output rate of 68% (64%, 73%).
Measures of PPV, NPV, sensitivity, and specificity with associated 95% confidence intervals
were calculated for the subset of patients for whom the device rendered a diagnostic output of
De Novo Summary (DEN200069) Page 6 of 10'Positive for ASD' or 'Negative for ASD ', resulting in: PPV of 81% (70%, 89%), NPV of 98%
(91% , 100%), sensitivity of 98% (92%, 100%), and specificity of 79% (68%, 88%) (see Tables 1
and 2).
Table 1. Resu Its Companng D ev1 . ce to er 1 m · c a1 Re £erence Stan dard
Clinical Reference Standard
ASD Positive ASD Ne!!ative Total
Cognoa ASD Positive 63 15 78
Device ASD Ne!!ative 1 56 57
Output No Response 58 232 290
Total 122 303 425
T ab le 2 . St a f1 s f1 ca1 Es fr mat es o fDev1.c e P er£ 0 1mance Observe d m. t.h e St U d ly
Metric Point Estimate 95% Confidence Interval
PPV 80.77% (63/78) 70.27% 88.82%
NPV 98.25% (56/57) 90.61%, 99.96%
Sensitivity 98.44% (63/64) 91.6% 99.96%
Specificity 78.87% (56/71) 67.56%, 87.67%
No Response Rate 68.24% (290/425) 63.58%, 72.64%
Safety: No adverse events were repo1i ed during the study.
L ABELING
The labeling is sufficient and satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR 801.109 for prescription
devices.
The labeling includes a detailed description of the device with images and computing
requirements that must be met by any general computing hardware to run the software device, a
description of the patient population for which the device is indicated for use, warnings,
precautions, and instructions for use. The labeling also includes summaiy info1m ation about the
clinical validation study perfonned with the device. These discussions have been provided in
both a user manual for physicians and a user manual for patients, parents, and cai·egivers.
The labeling includes wainings that the device is intended for use by healthcai·e professionals
tr·ained and qualified to inte1pret the results of a behavioral assessment examination and to
diagnose ASD, and that it should be used in conjunction with patient histo1y , clinical
observations, and other clinical evidence the healthcare professional detennines are necessa1y
before making clinical decisions. For instance, additional standardized testing may be sought to
confinn the device output, or especially for fmiher evaluation when the device provides 'No
Result' .
RISKS TO H EALTH
The table below identifies the risks to health that may be associated with use of a pediatric
Autism Spectrum Disorder diagnosis aid and the measures necessa1y to mitigate these risks.
De Novo Summary (DEN200069) Page 7 of 10Identified Risks to Health Mitigation Measures
Device failure or incorrect analysis Clinical performance testing
leading to: Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis
• False positives resulting in Labeling
inappropriate patient treatment
and potentially delayed diagnosis
of a non-ASD condition
• False negatives resulting in
delayed diagnosis and patient
treatment
Use error or misinterpretation of results Usability assessment
resulting in a false positive or false Labeling
negative
SPECIAL CONTROLS
In combination with the general controls of the FD&C Act, the pediatric Autism Spectrum
Disorder diagnosis aid is subject to the following special controls:
(1) Clinical performance testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under
anticipated conditions of use, including an evaluation of sensitivity, specificity, positive
predictive value, and negative predictive value using a reference method of diagnosis and
assessment of patient behavioral symptomology.
(2) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be provided. Software
documentation must include a detailed, technical description of the algorithm(s) used to
generate device output(s), and a cybersecurity assessment of the impact of threats and
vulnerabilities on device functionality and user(s).
(3) Usability assessment must demonstrate that the intended user(s) can safely and correctly
use the device.
(4) Labeling must include:
(i) Instructions for use, including a detailed description of the device, compatibility
information, and information to facilitate clinical interpretation of all device
outputs;
(ii) A summary of any clinical testing conducted to demonstrate how the device
functions as an interpretation of patient behavioral symptomology associated with
Autism Spectrum Disorder. The summary must include the following:
(A) A description of each device output and clinical interpretation;
(B) Any performance measures, including sensitivity, specificity, positive
predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value (NPV);
(C) A description of how the cut-off values used for categorical classification
of diagnoses were determined; and
(D) Any expected or observed adverse events and complications.
De Novo Summary (DEN200069) Page 8 of 10(iii)A statement that the device is not intended for use as a stand-alone diagnostic.
BENEFIT-RISK DETERMINATION
The risks of the device are based on software verification and validation, and human factors-
usability test data, as well as data collected in a clinical study described above.
The number of patients in the study who received a false negative device output was low (n=1).
Risks associated with patients who receive a false negative result are mitigated by the device
labeling, which states that a negative result does not ensure that the patient will not develop ASD
in the future, and that performance of additional confirmatory assessment or testing among
individuals with a negative result is at the discretion of the clinician. Similarly, the number of
patients in the study who received a false positive was moderately low (n=15). Risks associated
with patients who receive a false positive are mitigated by the device labeling, which reminds
clinicians to always consider clinical presentation when making a diagnosis for ASD, and that
such a diagnosis is based upon defined clinical characteristics outlined in the DSM-5.
Furthermore, since the patients being evaluated by the device are already presenting with
concerns of potential developmental delay as identified by either their parent, caregiver, or
healthcare provider, patients who are incorrectly treated for ASD may still receive some benefit
from these interventions, despite potentially delaying a correct diagnosis.
The probable benefits of the device are also based on software verification and validation and
human factors-usability test data, as well as data collected in a clinical study described above.
Patients with true positive (n=63) or false positive results are likely to benefit from interventions
for ASD. For true positive cases, getting a definite diagnosis can result in earlier confirmatory
testing or assessment, in addition to earlier access to intervention. Currently, the average age of
diagnosis for ASD in the United States is 4.3 years, as compared to 2.8 years observed in the
pivotal trial of the Cognoa ASD Diagnosis Aid. Earlier confirmation of diagnosis can enable
ASD patients to gain access to necessary intervention and optimize skill development at an
earlier point in the neurodevelopmental window. Longitudinally, early intervention between 2
and 3 years of age has shown to result in positive outcomes upon reaching adulthood.
For patients who received a device output of ‘No Result’ (68.24% of subjects, or 290/425),
additional standardized testing is recommended in order to drive clinical decision making. For
patients who may be included that are ASD positive (n=58 in the study performed), the result
may drive subsequent standardized testing and appropriate referrals, also in a more expeditious
manner.
For the reasons described above, the probable benefits of the Cognoa ASD Diagnosis Aid
outweigh the probable risks considering the listed special controls and general controls.
Patient Perspectives
This submission did not include specific information on patient perspectives for this device.
De Novo Summary (DEN200069) Page 9 of 10Benefit/Risk Conclusion
In conclusion, given the available information above, for the following indication statement:
The Cognoa ASD Diagnosis Aid is intended for use by healthcare providers as an aid in
the diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) for patients ages 18 months through
72 months who are at risk for developmental delay based on concerns of a parent,
caregiver, or healthcare provider.
The device is not intended for use as a stand-alone diagnostic device but as an adjunct to
the diagnostic process.
The probable benefits outweigh the probable risks for the Cognoa ASD Diagnosis Aid. The
device provides benefits and the risks can be mitigated by the use of general controls and the
identified special controls.
CONCLUSION
The De Novo request for the Cognoa ASD Diagnosis Aid is granted and the device is classified
as follows:
Product Code: QPF
Device Type: Pediatric Autism Spectrum Disorder diagnosis aid
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 882.1491
Class: II
De Novo Summary (DEN200069) Page 10 of 10