DE NOVO CLASSIFICATION REQUEST FOR
MASIMO CORPORATION SAFETYNET OPIOID SYSTEM
REGULATORY INFORMATION
FDA identifies this generic type of device as:
Monitor for opioid induced impairment of oxygenation. A monitor for opioid induced
impairment of oxygenation is a device that uses sensor hardware and software algorithms
to detect desaturations of arterial oxygen saturation resulting from opioid overdose.
NEW REGULATION NUMBER: 21 CF'R 868.2250
CLASSIFICATION: Class II
PRODUCT CODE: QVT
BACKGROUND
DEVICE NAME: Masimo SafetyNet Opioid System
SUBMISSION NUMBER: DEN20001 1
DATE DE NOVO RECEIVED: February 17, 2020
SPONSOR INFORMATION:
Masimo Corporation
52 Discovery
Irvine, CA 92618
INDICATIONS FOR USE
The Masimo SafetyNet Opioid System is intended to monitor and alarm when a patient
may be experiencing an opioid induced impairment of oxygenation.
The Masimo SafetyNet Opioid System is indicated for the non-invasive continuous
monitoring of individuals 15 years and older for the identification of when they may be
experiencing a substance induced impairment of oxygenation (e.g., opioid induced
respiratory depression (OIRD) caused by oral or injectable opioids) in hospital and home
environments.
LIMITATIONS
The Masimo SafetyNet Opioid Halo System is contraindicated for the monitoring of
opioid users on supplemental oxygen greater than 2.0 L/min.Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) can increase the risk of false OIRD alarms by causing
oxygenation instability trends that can be mistaken as OIRD.
The Masimo SafetyNet Opioid System is not designed to detect apnea. Do not use the
Masimo SafetyNet Opioid System as an apnea monitor.
PLEASE REFER TO THE LABELING FOR A COMPLETE LIST OF WARNINGS,
PRECAUTIONS AND CONTRAINDICATIONS.
DEVICE DESCRIPTION
The Masimo SafetyNet Opioid System (device)
is a system intended for noninvasively and
continuously monitoring opioid users 15 years
and older to identify substance induced
impairment of oxygenation that can lead to
opioid induced respiratory depression (OIRD)
caused by oral or injectable opioids in hospital
or home use environments. The device functions
using a pre-determined notification escalation
policy that provides the ability for the user to
receive alerts and to establish a network of
emergency contacts who can be contacted based
on the level of alert/alarm as determined by the device. These emergency contacts are notified
after previous notifications sent to the device user do not resolve the desaturation condition. As a
final action, the device can notify Emergency Medical Service (EMS) dispatch to trigger a
wellness call. If assistance is needed or the device user does not respond, the dispatch will
request that EMS (i.e., ambulance service) be sent to the device user's location.
The device consists of the following components:
• Bedside Station — Device component that communicates monitoring data wirelessly from
the medical technologies to provide visual/audible alerts. The Bedside Station is paired
by Bluetooth (BLE) with the Sensor. It also provides visual indication of its status
(including connectivity) and audible alarms. The Hub is line powered (AC/DC power
supply).
• Masimo Sensor - Wireless wearable pulse oximetry sensor that provides the monitoring
data. The Sensor is a headless, battery-powered pulse oximeter that is worn on the wrist
by the device user and transmits photoplethysmogram derived data to the Hub or App by
BLE for transmission to the SafetyNet Cloud server. The measurements are taken by a
wire connected, adhesive, wrap-style probe applied to the finger. The Sensor contains the
oximetry technology (Masimo SET pulse oximetry, K183697) for the device.
De Novo Summary (DEN200011) Page 2 of 11• Masimo SafetyNet Opioid App - Software application installed on a smart device that
provides the graphical user interface to display live monitoring data (e.g., pulse rate (PR),
pulse waveform) and alarm condition status. The App is installed on a smart mobile
device and wirelessly communicates with the SafetyNet Cloud server (by Wi-Fi or
Cellular data).
• Opioid Halo - Software that runs continuously to provide real-time detection of the
severe OIRD risk based upon changes or patterns in oxygenation biomarker data
(peripheral oxygen saturation (Sp02), pulse rate (PR), perfusion index (Pi)) found to be
consistent with published understanding of physiological effects of OIRD.
• Notification Escalation Policy — Policy that is used to add levels of awareness through the
notification of the device user, emergency contact, or contracted Emergency Responders.
The Level 1-3 alarms are triggered on the Bedside Station and App. The Level 2 and 3
alarms also trigger text notifications to the device user entered emergency contacts and
the Level 3 alarm will trigger a wellness call to the device user by an Emergency Medical
Service dispatch.
Table 1: Summary of Alarm Levels
Notification Alarm Trigger Visual Audible Emergency Emergency
Level Alarm Alarm Contact Dispatch
Level 1 Early signs of unstable oxygen levels or low oxygen Yes Yes No No
levels.
Level 2 Medically meaningful or very unusual signs of Yes Yes Yes No
unstable oxygen levels or sustained low levels of
oxygen.
Extremely unusual signs of unstable oxygen levels yes
Level 3 Yes Yes Yes
or a long period of low levels of oxygen or an
extreme drop in your oxygen level.
• Masimo SafetyNet Cloud - A server accessed over the intemet that gathers and stores
measured data communicated wirelessly from a Bedside Station. The Cloud software
processes transmitted data and enforces the notification escalation policy based upon the
data received.
SUMMARY OF NONCLINICAUBENCH STUDIES
BIOCOMPATIBILITY
The device includes previously cleared components (K183697) that are in direct contact
with the skin during use. The finger probe and single-use sensor are categorized as
surface contacting (intact skin) devices with prolonged contact in accordance with ISO
10993-1 referenced by the FDA guidance document, Use of International Standard ISO
10993-1, "Biological evaluation of medical devices - Part 1: Evaluation and testing
within a risk management process". The components were subjected to biocompatibility
testing in accordance ISO 10993-1. The following tests were conducted to assess
De Novo Summary (DEN200011) Page 3 of 11biocompatibility of the device for the surface, intact skin contacting components for
prolonged duration:
• Cytotoxicity
• Sensitization
• Irritation
All tests passed. The results demonstrated the biocompatibility of the device.
SHELF LIFE/REPROCESSING/STERILITY
The device is provided non-sterile and is not intended to be sterilized by the device user.
The Bedside Station is reusable, and the Sensor includes both reusable (Masimo Chip
sensor attached to wrist that wirelessly communicates with the Bedside Station) and
single-use disposable components (finger-wrap sensor that measures blood oxygen
information). The labeling provides cleaning and low-level disinfection procedures for
the Bedside Station and reusable Sensor components.
The Centroid 02 sensor has a shelf life of 1 year based on the adhesive used on the
sensor. Shelf life was assessed by testing strength of the adhesive over time.
ELECTRICAL, THERMAL, AND MECHANICAL SAFETY, ELECTROMAGNETIC COMPATIBILITY, &
WIRELESS COEXISTENCE
Electrical, thermal, & mechanical safety and electromagnetic compatibility testing has
been performed and complies with the following standards for use in hospital and home
healthcare settings:
• IEC 60601-1-2 4th Edition, Medical Electrical Equipment — Part 1-2: General
Requirements for Basic Safety and Essential Performance - Collateral Standard:
Electromagnetic Disturbances - Requirements And Tests
• IEC 60601 1: 2005 + CORR. 1:2006 + CORR. 2:2007 + AM1:2012: Medical
electrical equipment, Part 1: General requirements for basic safety and essential
performance
• IEC 60601-1-11: 2010 Medical Electrical Equipment — Part 1-11: General
requirements for basic safety and essential performance - Collateral Standard:
Requirements for medical electrical equipment and medical electrical systems
used in a home healthcare environment
• The Sensor was previously tested for requirements of IEC 60601-1-
2:2014+AMD1:2020 and AIM 7351731:2017 - Medical Electrical Equipment and
System Electromagnetic Immunity Test for Exposure to Radio Frequency
Identification Readers for RFID.
Wireless co-existence testing has been done to verify that the subject device will not have
degraded performance that might be associated with wireless coexistence in a shared
wireless environment in the intended use environment. Testing was conducted to meet
De Novo Summary (DEN200011) Page 4 of 11recommendations of the FDA Guidance, "Radio-Frequency Wireless Technology in
Medical Devices (2013)."
SOFTWARE & CYBERSECURITY
Software documentation including management of cybersecurity was provided in
accordance with the FDA Guidance Document, "Guidance for the Content of Premarket
Submissions for Software Contained in Medical Devices," (issued May 11, 2005) for a
Major Level of Concern (LOC). A Major LOC is deemed appropriate as malfunction of
the device software or a latent design flaw in the device software may lead to erroneous
information or a delay in the delivery of appropriate medical care, which would likely
result in serious injury or death.
HUMAN FACTORS TESTING
Human factors and usability risks were evaluated and acceptably mitigated in accordance
with FDA Guidance, "Applying Human Factors and Usability Engineering to Optimize
Medical Device Design (2016)". The testing included lay persons as well as those who
engage in illicit opioid use and was conducted to support the acceptability of the human
factors and usability risks. Testing included a risk-based approach which considered the
expected intended use of the device and analyzed the tasks to determine those that were
device use-related. The device use-related tasks were categorized based upon risk to
establish critical device use-related tasks. Formative activities were conducted in the
development of the user interfaces of the device to ensure they were effective for the
intended population, which includes home device users (lay operators). Knowledge Task
Assessment and Simulate Use testing was conducted to determine the completion of the
critical device user tasks did not result in any unacceptable human factors and usability
risks. The results of the human factors and usability testing supported the acceptability of
the human factors and usability risks. There were no unacceptable residual risks that
required further modifications of the design or the user interface to mitigate risks to
acceptable levels.
PERFORMANCE TESTING - BENCH
Non-clinical bench testing was performed on the device to provide verification of the
pulse oximeter monitoring functions and general instrument functions (e.g., input/output
interfaces). Additionally, bench performance testing using a pulse oximeter simulator was
completed to demonstrate that the device can communicate through a wireless connection
to enable communication with the Sensor.
SUMMARY OF CLINICAL INFORMATION
Clinical Performance Validation Summary
Clinical testing was performed to support the clinical benefits of the Masimo SafetyNet
Opioid System. To support performance in the improved detection of opioid induced
respiratory depression (OIRD), 40,322 data segments from 641 study participants (opioid
De Novo Summary (DEN200011) Page 5 of 11use-cases,135 prescription home opioid (i.e., naive, chronic), 242 hospitalized opioid, and
264 illicit opioid) using Masimo SET pulse oximetry for classification were analyzed.
The results support the increased specificity in the detection of OIRD as compared to a
traditional pulse oximeter with a fixed threshold alarm. See summary of the overall
sensitivity and specificity below.
Table 2: Summary of the Overall Sensitivity and Specificity
Subject Data Segments Benchmark Halo - Level 1 Halo - Level 2 Halo - Level 3
Type Used Cases OIRD Sensitivity Specificity Sensitivity Specificity Sensitivity Specificity Sensitivity Specificity
Overall 40322 641 130 99.2% 80.6% 100.0% 93.9% 100.0% 97.5% 79.2% 99.5%
Naive 3640 58 2 100.0% 87.4% 100.0% 97.8% 100.0% 99.3% 100.0% 100.0%
Chronic 44781 77 13 100.0% 80.2% 100.0% 95.7% 100.0% 98.4% 100.0% 99.6%
Hospital 319401 241 98 99.0% 79.9% 100.0% 93.2% 100.0% 97.2% 75.5% 99.5%
Illicit 264 264 17 100.0% 83.4% 100.0% 85.8% 100.0% 93.5% 82.4% 99.6%
The data from 936 cases that included the same 641 opioid users and an additional 295
sleeping non-opioid users supported the improved reduction of non-actionable alarm as
compared to a fixed threshold pulse oximeter (benchmark). See summary of alarm
reductions below:
Table 3: Summary of the Alarm Reductions
Subject Used Benchmark Halo - Level 1 Halo - Level 2 Halo - Level 3
Type Subjects Alarms Alarms % Reduction Alarms % Reduction Alarms % Reduction
Overall 936 33415 8366 75.0% 3663 89.0% 1097 96.7%
Naïve 58 2196 217 90.1% 81 96.3% 5 99.8%
Chronic 77 4991 756 84.9% 347 93.0% 145 97.1%
Hospital 242 25928 7212 72.2% 3119 88.0% 923 96.4%
Micit 264 141 87 38.3% 55 61.0% 15 89.4%
Sleeping 295 159 94 40.9% 61 61.6% 9 94.3%
Non-
opioid
users
The dataset collected on 17 illicit opioid rescue cases also supported the responsiveness of
the Halo alarms, despite their increased specificity. The responsiveness was measured by
calculating the time from opioid injection to alarm (TFO) and time from alarm to
intervention (TTI).
Table 4: Summary of the Timing Data
Subject Used Benchmark Halo - Level I Halo - LCVC 2 Halo - Level 3
Type TFO (min.) TTI (min.) TFO (min.) TTI (min.) TFO (min.) TTI (min.) TFO (min.) TTI (min.)
Illicit 17 3.14 2.69 3.42 2.40 4.60 1.22 4.80 1.06
To evaluate effect of positive Sp02 bias in detection of OIRD that could be due to dark
skin pigmentation, data from 264 illicit users were analyzed by comparison of sensitivity
and specificity between the user's data and modified data with a hypothesized 2%
positive bias (see summary of sensitivity and specificity below). Results demonstrate no
De Novo Summary (DEN200011) Page 6 of 11clinically significant effect on performance due to use of Halo software and reliance on
trends in data.
Table 5: Sensitivity and Specificity of Illicit users using original and modified datasets
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Version Sensitivity Specificity Sensitivity Specificity Sensitivity Specificity
Opioid Halo on
Illicit Users 100% 85.8% 100% 93.5% 82.4% 99.6%
data
Opioid Halo on
Illicit Users 100% 88.7% 100% 95.1% 82.4% 99.6%
data with
additional 2%
Sp02 bias
Sp02 Performance Validation Summary
Sp02 performance validation study was conducted on Masimo Radius PPG sensors by
enrolling healthy male and female volunteer subjects with varying levels of skin
pigmentation, characterized by the Massey scale (1-10). Subjects with Massey 1-3 were
categorized as Light, and Massey 4-10 were categorized as Dark. A total of 26 subjects
were enrolled in the study and subjected to induced hypoxia to target Sp02 levels down
to 70%. Data from 13 subjects categorized as Light and 9 subjects categorized as Dark
were analyzed. Data from 4 subjects were excluded due to incomplete desaturation
profiles. See summary of results below for subjects overall and comparison between
subjects categorized as Light and Dark.
Table 6: Sp02 Performance Summary
Measurement ARMS Values for Radius PPG Sensors
Sp02 Accuracy Range CM Aims (A)
90-100 1.73
80-90 1.80
70-80 1.73
70-100 1.75
Table 7. Sp02 performance between Light and Dark subjects
Group No. Subjects Bias MAB Prec. Aims LOA Npairs
Light 13 0.05 1.48 1.79 1.79 [-3.46 3.56] 449
Dark 9 0.03 1.34 1.74 1.75 [-3.39 3.45] 313
Pediatric Extrapolation
There are differences in respiratory physiology in pre-pubescent children as compared to
older children and adults, such as differences in respiratory control and lung mechanics as
well as a higher metabolic requirement of oxygen. An important difference includes
oxygen carrying capacity and the physiological response to hypoxemia, which can be
more pronounced in younger children. Therefore, taking these concepts into account
De Novo Summary (DEN200011) Page 7 of 11along with leveraging clinical data from adult study participants, this device can be
effectively used in opioid users as young as 15 years of age.
LABELING
The labeling (User Manual) provides a complete listing of contraindications, warnings, and
precautions to help ensure safe and effective use of the device system. There is also a summary
of the testing, both clinical and non-clinical, to support the performance of the device system in
the anticipated device use populations and environments to help device users understand
expected performance.
RISKS TO HEALTH
The table below identifies the risks to health that may be associated with use of a monitor for
opioid induced impairment of oxygenation and the measures necessary to mitigate the risks
Identified Risks to Health Mitigation Measures
False negative leading to delayed Clinical performance data
treatment Non-clinical performance testing
Software validation, verification, and hazard analysis
Labeling
False positive based on other Clinical performance data
medical conditions or poor Non-clinical performance testing
algorithm performance leading to Software validation, verification, and hazard analysis
unnecessary early intervention or Labeling
response
Software malfunction that causes Software validation, verification, and hazard analysis
an algorithm error
Delayed or incorrect treatment due Usability assessment
to use-related error or overreliance Labeling
on device
Adverse tissue reaction Biocompatibility evaluation
Sensor induced injury Electrical, thermal, and mechanical safety testing
Failure to function as intended due Electromagnetic compatibility testing
to electromagnetic and wireless Wireless coexistence testing
radio frequency interference
SPECIAL CONTROLS
In combination with the general controls of the FD&C Act, the monitor for opioid induced
impairment of oxygenation is subject to the following special controls:
(1) Clinical performance data under anticipated conditions of use must demonstrate that the
device performs as intended and include the following:
De Novo Summary (DEN200011) Page 8 of 11(i) Comparison to a clinically relevant reference method to demonstrate and support the
accuracy and level of sensitivity and specificity for detection of opioid induced
impairment of oxygenation;
(ii) Demonstration of the consistency of the output and representativeness of the range of
data sources and data quality likely to be encountered in the intended use population
and relevant use conditions in the intended use environment;
(iii) Performance reported in clinically significant and distinct subpopulations and
intended use environments;
(iv) For devices using algorithms based on machine learning, the clinical validation must
be completed using a dataset that is separate from the training dataset; and
(v) Simulated use testing of hardware and sensors to characterize accuracy and precision
across the intended use population
(2) Software description, verification, and validation based on comprehensive hazard analysis
must be performed. Software documentation must include:
(i) Full characterization of technical parameters of the software, including any
algorithm(s);
(ii) Specification of acceptable incoming sensor data quality control measures; and
(iii) Justification for the validity of the algorithm(s) (e.g., clinical relevance/importance
of decision threshold).
(3) Non-clinical performance data must demonstrate that the device performs as intended
under anticipated conditions of use. Testing must include:
(i) Performance testing of sensor hardware to characterize sensor accuracy and
precision; and
(ii) Compatibility testing of sensors with other hardware and software components of the
device.
(4) Usability assessment must be provided to demonstrate that intended device users can
safely and correctly use the device.
(5) All components of the device that contact the skin must be demonstrated to be
biocompatible.
(6) Performance testing must demonstrate the electromagnetic compatibility (EMC), wireless
coexistence, electrical safety, thermal safety, and mechanical safety of any hardware
components and sensors of the device.
(7) Labeling must include the following:
(i) A summary of the clinical validation data, including relevant characteristics of the
included subpopulations and use environments in the clinical study, and performance
metrics, including sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), and
negative predictive value (NPV) for each of the subpopulations, use environments,
and opioid types;
De Novo Summary (DEN200011) Page 9 of 11(ii) Principles of sensor operation, including warnings for how to avoid interfering with
sensor readings;
(iii) Information for preventing an overdose, recognizing signs of an overdose, and
treating an overdose;
(iv) Warnings identifying that the device is not designed to differentiate between the
target condition (e.g., opioid-induced respiratory depression) and other conditions
that may cause a false reading (e.g., obstructive sleep apnea);
(v) Warnings against overreliance on the device; and
(vi) A warning regarding the need for supervised use with awareness of effective
countermeasures (e.g., naloxone) in case of an overdose.
BENEFIT-RISK DETERMINATION
The risks of the device include frequent unnecessary interventions or delayed treatment due to
inaccurate detection of opioid induced impaired oxygenation or failure of communication
between device components. Unnecessary interventions ("false positive") may result in
desensitization (i.e., alarm fatigue) of device users and caregivers and overburdening of EMS.
Delayed treatment ("false negative") may result in death. Additional risks include overdose
through overreliance on the device and injury to the device user at the sensor application site.
The benefits of the device include reduction in non-actionable alarms compared to monitoring
with traditional pulse oximetry, more focused and improved detection of oxygen desaturation
associated with opioid induced respiratory depression, and quicker detection and treatment of an
opioid overdose. During the clinical validation study, data collected from prescription home (i.e.,
nave, chronic), hospitalized, and illicit opioid users using Masimo SET pulse oximetry was
analyzed for improved specificity and reduction in non-actionable alarms. The analysis found
equivalent sensitivity as a system with a higher specificity in the detection of OIRD as compared
to a pulse oximeter with a fixed threshold alarm. The analysis of the data also found a significant
reduction in non-actionable alarms (i.e., 76% for Level 1, 89% for Level 2, and 96.7% for Level
3) from a standard fixed threshold alarm pulse oximeter. Analysis of study data also found an
improved PPV with comparable NPV as compared to the benchmark (pulse oximeter) for all
alarms levels and opioid user groups. The PPV values were higher for the nave and illicit user
groups, where opioid use may be more directly related to the reason for the instability in their
biometric data markers. Although the PPV for the hospital and chronic opioid users were
significantly higher than the benchmark, they were lower than those for the nave and illicit
opioid user groups. This is likely due to the presence of other health factors that can cause
instability in the biometric data markers.
Since end-tidal CO2 monitoring and respiratory rate along with Sp02 thresholds below 90%
were not included in the clinical studies, there are remaining uncertainties on level of evidence
available to develop a reference standard that can serve as ground truth to denote severe OIRD,
though critical data were available to lead to development of a sufficiently rigorous ground truth
comparator. Furthermore, for in-hospital patients who may be experiencing other physiologic
perturbations not related to OIRD, it is uncertain what other data was available for the clinical
experts to lay ground truth of an OIRD event. Finally, the uncertainty related to the benefit of the
Masimo SafetyNet Opioid system is associated mainly with the device user's willingness to
De Novo Summary (DEN200011) Page 10 of 11adhere to the use of the device and the responsiveness of those who are notified of an alarmable
condition. The device user may also misuse the device by increasing their opioid dose resulting
in an overdose, a concern that labeling mitigations are targeted to address.
Patient Perspectives
This submission did not include specific information on patient perspectives for this device.
Benefit/Risk Conclusion
The risks of frequent non-actionable alarms and delayed detection of overdose are mitigated
based on the performance of the Halo software and notification escalation policy. Though the
sensitivity of Level 3 alerts (to alert for a wellness call/EMS dispatch) was lower than for the
comparator (Sp02 alerts set at <90%) for illicit and hospital device users, device performance
for Level 1 and 2 alerts (100% sensitivity) mitigates the lower performance. Importantly, there
are no available alternatives to monitor for OIRD, especially for the out-of-hospital populations.
For in-hospital use, the device will add specificity to the standard of care (Sp02 set to alert
<90%). Based upon these supporting performance data, the benefit-risk profile of the Masimo
SafetyNet was found to be favorable, considering the opportunity to detect a life-threatening
condition and provide alarms and communications targeted at lifesaving measures. While the
device is not without risks, the inherent risks associated with device operation and performance
are further mitigated through the special controls found above. The benefit risk profile also takes
into account the significance of the ongoing opioid epidemic and the increasing numbers of
overdose related deaths.
In conclusion, the probable benefits outweigh the probable risks for the Masimo SafetyNet
Opioid System. The device provides benefits, and the risks can be mitigated by the use of general
controls and the identified special controls.
CONCLUSION
The De Novo request for the Masimo SafetyNet Opioid System is granted and the device is
classified as follows:
Product Code: QVT
Device Type: Monitor for opioid induced impairment of oxygenation
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 868.2250
Class: II
De Novo Summary (DEN200011) Page 11 of 11