February 11, 2026
Ultrasound AI
℅ Raymond Kelly
Consultant
Arazy Group Consultants Inc.
3422 Leonardo Lane
NEW SMYRNA FL 32168
Re: DEN250007
Trade/Device Name: Delivery Date AI
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.8200
Regulation Name: Radiological software system for delivery date prediction
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: SHE
Dated: February 28, 2025
Received: March 17, 2025
Dear Raymond Kelly:
The Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has
completed its review of your De Novo request for classification of the Delivery Date AI, a prescription
device under 21 CFR Part 801.109 with the following indications for use:
Delivery Date AI is a post-processing software designed to analyze pregnancy ultrasound images
using machine learning techniques. It analyzes raw images to provide healthcare practitioners (HCPs)
with a Predicted Delivery Date (PDD) in women without a reliable estimated delivery date.
The software estimates the predicted delivery date for a singleton pregnancy and should be used as an
aid in clinical judgment, alongside standard methods for assessing gestational age. This is a
prediction of the actual delivery date called the Predicted Delivery Date (PDD).
The software processes entire images, which include fetal and maternal characteristics, and targets a
specific patient population consisting of women 18 years of age or older with a singleton pregnancy
at or beyond 14 0/7 weeks through 36 6/7 weeks gestation who lack a reliable Estimated Delivery
Date (EDD) due to:
• Unreliable LMP: Examples include irregular menstrual cycles, spotting mistaken for menses,
or recent use of hormonal contraceptives.
• No First-Trimester Ultrasound: Absence of an ultrasound before 14 weeks gestation,
precluding crown-rump length measurement.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govDEN250007 - Raymond Kelly Page 2
• Gestational Age Confirmation: Pregnancy within the indicated range verified by clinical
indicators such as fundal height or detection of a fetal heartbeat.
FDA concludes that this device should be classified into Class II. This order, therefore, classifies the
Delivery Date AI, and substantially equivalent devices of this generic type, into Class II under the generic
name radiological software system for delivery date prediction.
FDA identifies this generic type of device as:
Radiological software system for delivery date prediction. A radiological software system for
delivery date prediction is a software-only device that analyzes obstetric radiological images to
predict the delivery date of a pregnancy. The device output does not replace a clinician's review or
judgment on the progression of a pregnancy and should be used in conjunction with other clinical and
diagnostic findings. The device does not identify at-risk pregnancies or identify specific
complications.
Section 513(f)(2) of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the FD&C Act) was amended by section 607 of the
Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act (FDASIA) on July 9, 2012. This law provides two
options for De Novo classification. First, any person who receives a "not substantially equivalent" (NSE)
determination in response to a 510(k) for a device that has not been previously classified under the Act may
request FDA to make a risk-based classification of the device under section 513(a)(1) of the Act. On
December 13, 2016, the 21st Century Cures Act removed a requirement that a De Novo request be submitted
within 30 days of receiving an NSE determination. Alternatively, any person who determines that there is no
legally marketed device upon which to base a determination of substantial equivalence may request FDA to
make a risk-based classification of the device under section 513(a)(1) of the Act without first submitting a
510(k). FDA shall, within 120 days of receiving such a request, classify the device. This classification shall
be the initial classification of the device. Within 30 days after the issuance of an order classifying the device,
FDA must publish a notice in the Federal Register announcing the classification.
On March 17, 2025, FDA received your De Novo requesting classification of the Delivery Date AI. The
request was submitted under section 513(f)(2) of the FD&C Act. In order to classify the Delivery Date AI
into class I or II, it is necessary that the proposed class have sufficient regulatory controls to provide
reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use. After review of the
information submitted in the De Novo request, FDA has determined that, for the previously stated
indications for use, the Delivery Date AI can be classified in class II with the establishment of special
controls for class II. FDA believes that class II (special) controls provide reasonable assurance of the safety
and effectiveness of the device type. The identified risks and mitigation measures associated with the device
type are summarized in the following table:
Risks to Health Mitigation Measures
Inappropriate patient management due to Clinical performance testing
inaccurate prediction of actual delivery date, Software verification, validation, and hazard
whether significantly early or late analysis
LabelingDEN250007 - Raymond Kelly Page 3
Risks to Health Mitigation Measures
Postmarket monitoring plan
Inappropriate patient management resulting Clinical performance testing
from inconsistent device output due to Software verification, validation, and hazard
differences in acquisitions, equipment settings, analysis
and other image input characteristics Labeling
Postmarket monitoring plan
User misinterpretation of the device’s output as Labeling
being directly reflective of the gestational age Device Characteristics
of the fetus, contributing to:
- Inappropriate patient management
- Overreliance on device output
In combination with the general controls of the FD&C Act, the radiological software system for delivery date
prediction is subject to the following special controls:
(1) Data obtained from clinical performance validation testing acquired under anticipated conditions of use
must demonstrate that the device performs as intended when used in the intended patient population.
Documentation must include the following:
(i) A clear description of the patient population the device is intended to analyze.
(ii) A clear description of the clinical environment and context of use in which the device is intended
to be used.
(iii) A description of the dataset(s) used, including detailed annotation methods and important cohorts
(e.g., subsets defined by patient demographics, clinically relevant confounders, and image
acquisition characteristics). Validation must contain a sufficient number of cases from important
cohorts (i.e., subsets defined by clinically relevant demographics, confounders, effect modifiers,
concomitant diseases, challenging cases, and subsets defined by image acquisition
characteristics) such that the performance estimates and confidence intervals of the device for
these individual subsets can be characterized for the intended use population and imaging
equipment. The test dataset must be independent of the data used in the training/development of
the device.
(iv) A description of prespecified performance testing protocols (including but not limited to the
study objectives, study endpoints, statistical hypotheses, performance goals, sample size
calculation, and statistical analyses). Performance goals used to determine success of the clinical
validation study must be clinically justified and must be based on appropriate objective
performance measures comparing the device output to known delivery information on sampled
patients (e.g., Bland-Altman plots, error metrics).
(v) Performance testing should capture inter- and intra- patient variability and ranges of agreement
between the device predictions and reference standard, as well as other relevant sources of
variation.
(2) Device design characteristics must ensure that information and limitations in special control (4)(i) and
4(vii) are featured in the software user interface.DEN250007 - Raymond Kelly Page 4
(3) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be provided. Software documentation must
include a detailed technical description of all image analysis algorithms, including the algorithm inputs
and outputs, each major component or block, and any algorithm limitations.
(4) Labeling must include:
(i) A description of the meaning of the date predicted by the device and the relationship of the date
to other calculated dates used in clinical practice (e.g., estimated delivery date);
(ii) A description of the intended patient population, the intended user, clinical environment, and
context of use, including information on interpretation of outputs within the intended clinical
workflow;
(iii) A description of the device inputs and outputs;
(iv) A description of compatible imaging hardware and imaging protocols;
(v) A summary of the development data and clinical validation data, including sources of data, study
sites, samples sizes, demographics and other relevant characteristics of the study participants;
(vi) A summary of performance testing including test methods, dataset characteristics, reference
standard, testing environment, results (with confidence intervals), and a summary of clinical
performance for all demographic subgroups and relevant confounders from testing dataset(s);
(vii) Limiting statements that indicate:
(A) The output is not intended to predict or assess the risk of pre-term birth;
(B) A description of situations in which the device may fail or may not operate at its expected
performance level (e.g., poor image quality or for certain subpopulations), as applicable;
and
(C) A warning that users should use the device in conjunction with other clinical and
diagnostic findings, including information obtained by alternative methods and clinical
evaluation, as appropriate.
(5) The device manufacturer must develop and implement a post-market performance management plan
that ensures regular assessment of the generalizability and device performance in the intended patient
population in real-world use. The plan must include:
(i) Data collection, analysis methods, and procedures for:
(A) Monitoring relevant performance characteristics and detecting changes in performance;
(B) Identifying sources of performance changes between validation and real-world
environment over time; and
(C) Assessing the results from the performance testing on safety and effectiveness;
(ii) Procedures for communicating the device’s current performance to the users.
In addition, this is a prescription device and must comply with 21 CFR 801.109.
Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some granted products may
instead be combination products. If you have questions on whether your product is a combination product,
contact CDRHProductJurisdiction@fda.hhs.gov.
Section 510(m) of the FD&C Act provides that FDA may exempt a class II device from the premarket
notification requirements under section 510(k) of the FD&C Act, if FDA determines that premarketDEN250007 - Raymond Kelly Page 5
notification is not necessary to provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device
type. FDA has determined premarket notification is necessary to provide reasonable assurance of the safety
and effectiveness of the device type and, therefore, the device is not exempt from the premarket notification
requirements of the FD&C Act. Thus, persons who intend to market this device type must submit a
premarket notification containing information on the radiological software system for delivery date
prediction they intend to market prior to marketing the device.
Please be advised that FDA's decision to grant this De Novo request does not mean that FDA has made a
determination that your device complies with other requirements of the FD&C Act or any Federal statutes
and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the FD&C Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
4, Subpart A) for combination products; and if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions
(Sections 531-542 of the FD&C Act; 21 CFR 1000-1050).
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System Rule ("UDI
Rule"). The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its
label and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that
the dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
A notice announcing this classification order will be published in the Federal Register. A copy of this order
and supporting documentation are on file in the Dockets Management Branch (HFA-305), Food and Drug
Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Room 1061, Rockville, MD 20852 and are available for inspection
between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday.
As a result of this order, you may immediately market your device as described in the De Novo request,
subject to the general control provisions of the FD&C Act and the special controls identified in this order.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, please see
Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance)
and CDRH Learn (https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you
may contact the Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific
regulatory topic. See the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-
regulatory-assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or
contact DICE by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).DEN250007 - Raymond Kelly Page 6
If you have any questions concerning the contents of the letter, please contact Samuel Fielden at 301-796-
6964.
Sincerely,
Laurel Burk, Ph.D.
Director
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health