DE NOVO CLASSIFICATION REQUEST FOR
GILI PRO BIOSENSOR (ALSO KNOWN AS "GILI BIOSENSOR SYSTEM")
REGULATORY INFORMATION
FDA identifies this generic type of device as:
Hardware and software for optical camera-based measurement of pulse rate, heart
rate, breathing rate, and/or respiratory rate. The device uses an optical sensor system
and software algorithms to obtain and analyze video signal and estimate pulse rate, heart
rate, respiratory rate and/or breathing rates. This device is not intended to independently
direct therapy.
NEW REGULATION NUMBER: 21 CFR 870.2786
CLASSIFICATION: Class II
PRODUCT CODE: QOK
BACKGROUND
DEVICE NAME: Gili Pro BioSensor (also known as "Gili BioSensor System")
SUBMISSION NUMBER: DEN200038
DATE DE NOVO RECEIVED: June 12, 2020
SPONSOR INFORMATION:
ContinUse Biometrics Ltd.
HaBarzel 32B
Tel-Aviv, Israel, 6971048
INDICATIONS FOR USE
The Gili Pro BioSensor (Gili BioSensor System) includes an optical module that is
intended to capture motion-vibration signals from an illuminated surface for assessment
of physiological information. Such information, captured during spot-measurement,
includes:
 Heart rate
 Respiratory rate
The device is indicated for use by or under the supervision of healthcare professionals for
adult patients in a hospital, outpatient, or other medical care settings, or for clinical
research purposes.The device should be used while the subject is seated upright either in a chair or in a bed.
The information stored on the system may be reviewed by qualified persons.
LIMITATIONS
When using the device, the subject should be wearing smooth clothing that is snug fitting
or flattened against the chest during measurements.
The device is not intended for continuous vital signs monitoring.
The device is not intended to be used as an apnea monitor.
PLEASE REFER TO THE LABELING FOR A COMPLETE LIST OF WARNINGS,
PRECAUTIONS AND CONTRAINDICATIONS.
DEVICE DESCRIPTION
The Gili Pro BioSensor is an optical system consisting of a sensing unit and a mobile unit with a
preinstalled software application. The optical sensing unit is an aluminum enclosure which
houses a lithium ion battery, illuminating optics (laser projector and laser pointer), digital image
sensor, range meter, and firmware to facilitate data processing. The illuminating optics are based
on eye-safe lasers which are compliant with Class I laser product accessible emission limits. The
sensing unit is connected via a USB cable to a mobile unit on which the mobile application is
installed.
The system illuminates the subject via a low-powered near infra-red (NIR at ~780 nm) light
beam while an image sensor module captures the back reflected light pattern by the light sensor.
The laser pointer illuminates in the visible spectrum (~650 nm) to facilitate proper positioning of
the sensor relative to the subject. Changes in the reflected light pattern are coupled with motions
of the illuminated surface, which are affected by heart and breathing motions. Analysis of these
patterns through the software application correlate with heart and respiratory rates, as part of
vital signs assessment. The heart and respiratory rate values are displayed on the user interface of
the mobile unit.
Figure 1. The Gili Pro Biosensor Sensing Unit
De Novo Summary (DEN200038) Page 2 of 8Figure 2. Example of HR and RR Values Displayed on the Mobile Unit
Device measurement ranges are 30-230 bpm for heart rate and 4-60 breaths per minute (BrPM)
for respiratory rate, of which the ranges of 38-100 bpm (for HR) and 6-34 BrPM (for Resp) were
validated via clinical testing.
SUMMARY OF NONCLINICAL/BENCH STUDIES
SHELF LIFE/STERILITY
The Gili Pro BioSensor is a non-sterile and reusable device. It is designed for non-contact
measurements. The shelf-life of the device is 3 years. This shelf-life was determined
based on specific storage conditions of the battery.
ELECTROMAGNETIC CAPABILITY & ELECTROMAGNETIC SAFETY
The following Electrical/ Mechanical/Thermal Safety, electromagnetic compatibility
(EMC) and laser safety testing has been performed:
 IEC 60601-1:2005+ CORR. 1:2006 + CORR. 2:2007 + A1:2012, General
requirements for basic safety and essential performance for medical electrical
equipment
 IEC 60601-1-2:2014, Medical electrical equipment Part 1-2 – General
requirements for basic safety and essential performance – Electromagnetic
compatibility.
 IEC 60825-1, Safety of laser products
SOFTWARE
De Novo Summary (DEN200038) Page 3 of 8The Gili Pro BioSensor has a Moderate Level of Concern (LOC). Appropriate
documentation was provided to support the validation of the software for a Moderate
LOC in accordance with FDA’s 2005 guidance titled, “Guidance for the Content of
Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical Devices.” The sponsor
provided details on how the software algorithm measures heart and respiratory rate. The
workflow and software handling of hardware error or failures were demonstrated.
Appropriate documentation was provided in accordance with FDA’s 2014 guidance
document titled “Content of Premarket Submissions for Management of Cybersecurity in
Medical Devices” to support adequate cybersecurity measures have been taken and will
be monitored and updated throughout the device life cycle.
PERFORMANCE TESTING - BENCH
Non-clinical performance testing was conducted to verify device performance across the
intended range of heart and respiratory rates for values beyond what was observed in the
clinical study. A modified manikin was used to simulate chest motion-vibrations of heart
sounds and gross chest movements. Verification of manikin outputs were performed
using reference devices. This testing included situations with extreme heart and breathing
frequencies and different environmental conditions (clothing color, clothing layers,
lighting conditions, etc.) Combinations of various conditions were tested to simulate
worse-case scenarios. Mixed model estimates show that the heart rate and respiratory rate
measurements met acceptance criteria of ±3bpm for heart rate and ±2 breaths per minute
(BrPM) for respiratory rate. Repeatability and reproducibility (R&R) testing was
performed using the manikin test-rig to demonstrate that the device provides consistent
measurements regardless of operator. Results of the R&R testing showed a mean
difference between devices across all reference values of 0.01, indicating strong
repeatability and reproducibility for both heart rate and respiratory rate measurements.
HUMAN FACTORS/USABILITY
A human factors study was conducted with 21 representative users to evaluate the
usability of the Gili BioSensor system. These users were asked to use the device to obtain
a vital sign measurement on a subject mimicking behaviors expected of patients. Overall,
users demonstrated successful operation of the device, through set-up and measurement
of both heart rate and respiratory rate. The testing provided adequate assurance that the
critical tasks could be performed without difficulty or use errors.
SUMMARY OF CLINICAL INFORMATION
The sponsor provided a clinical study protocol and results to support the safety and effectiveness
of the device. The clinical performance study design was two-phase trial with 10 subjects in the
pilot phase and 120 in the main, pivotal study. Patient recruitment was stratified by non-
arrhythmia/arrhythmia subjects and included a variety of chest shapes (i.e. barrel-chested/COPD
subjects), BMIs (31% of subjects considered obese), ages (range of 29 – 93 years), and a
distribution of light and dark skin colors as measured by the Fitzpatrick scale.
De Novo Summary (DEN200038) Page 4 of 8The study included two co-primary analyses to assess the accuracy of heart rate for the
population of non-arrhythmia subjects and respiratory rate for the general population of subjects,
with and without arrhythmia. The secondary objective was to demonstrate equivalence of the
Gili BioSensor System to the reference device on heart rate for the general population of
subjects, with and without arrhythmia. Heart rate was compared to the gold standard reference
ECG to determine heart rate and presence of arrhythmia. Respiratory rate was compared to
clinician over-scored capnography.
The primary analysis found that the Gili Pro BioSensor meets the pre-specified acceptance
criteria for both heart rate and respiratory rate. A mixed model estimates for the method
comparison between Gili and the reference was utilized. Additionally, 95% confidence intervals
were calculated using the bootstrap re-sampling method. Heart rate for non-arrhythmia patients
met the pre-specified acceptance criteria of ±3bpm. The intercept was 0.51 with 95% confidence
interval of (0.18, 0.84). Respiratory rate in the general population was found to have an intercept
of 0.17 with 95% confidence interval of (-0.08, 0.42), within the pre-specified performance
criteria of ±2BrPM.
Secondary confirmatory analysis found that the device meets the pre-specified criteria for
comparison to ECG heart rate in the broader population, including individuals with arrhythmias.
The secondary endpoint analysis determined an intercept of 1.1 with a 95% confidence interval
of (-0.02, 2.3). This result was within the range of the pre-specified acceptance criteria of ±5
bpm. Supportive analysis comparing the heart rate of the Gili Pro BioSensor to an additional
PPG reference device demonstrated the device’s equivalence. Lastly, poolability and covariate
analyses found no notable covariate effects.
With respect to safety outcomes, no adverse events were reported during the trial period, which
was expected given the contactless nature of the device.
Pediatric Extrapolation
In this De Novo request, existing clinical data were not leveraged to support the use of the device
in a pediatric patient population.
LABELING
The labeling includes a description of what the device measures and outputs to the user. A
summary of the validation and verification data performed provides expected performance for
intended use populations and environments. When using the device, the subject should be
wearing smooth clothing that is snug fitting or flattened against the chest during measurement.
Other patient conditions that may affect performance of the device are listed in the labeling. The
labeling provides instructions on the system set-up, taking measurements, device maintenance,
and troubleshooting.
The device is not a continuous monitor and is only intended for spot-check measurements of
heart and respiratory rate. The reported accuracy of the system is described for both
De Novo Summary (DEN200038) Page 5 of 8measurements in accordance with what was measured in the clinical study. The device should
not be used with any subject that require critical care or continuous vital sign monitoring. The
system is not intended to detect the presence/absence of arrhythmias. The Gili BioSensor system
is intended for use by appropriately trained healthcare professionals and should not be used by
untrained lay users. The device is not intended to be the sole method of checking the physical
health of a subject.
RISKS TO HEALTH
The table below identifies the risks to health that may be associated with use of hardware and
software for optical camera-based measurement of pulse rate, heart rate, breathing rate, and/or
respiratory rate and the measures necessary to mitigate these risks.
Identified Risks to Health Mitigation Measures
Delayed or incorrect treatment due to Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis
erroneous output as a result of device Cybersecurity assessment
malfunction or algorithm error Clinical data
Labeling
Delayed or incorrect treatment due to Human factors assessment
user misinterpretation Labeling
Eye damage, burns, and related safety Non-clinical performance testing
concerns due to illuminating optics Labeling
SPECIAL CONTROLS
In combination with the general controls of the FD&C Act, the hardware and software for optical
camera-based measurement of pulse rate, heart rate, breathing rate and/or respiratory rate is
subject to the following special controls:
(1) A software description and the results of verification and validation testing based on a
comprehensive hazard analysis and risk assessment must include:
(i) A full characterization of the software technical parameters, including
algorithms;
(ii) A description of all mitigations for user error or failure of any subsystem
components (including signal detection, signal analysis, data display, and
storage) on output accuracy; and
(iii) Software documentation must include a cybersecurity vulnerability and
management process to assure software functionality.
(2) Performance testing must demonstrate the safety of any illuminating optics.
(3) Clinical data must be provided. This assessment must fulfill the following:
(i) The clinical data must be representative of the intended use population for the
device. Any selection criteria or sample limitations must be fully described and
justified.
De Novo Summary (DEN200038) Page 6 of 8(ii) The assessment must demonstrate output consistency using the expected range
of data sources and data quality encountered in the intended use population and
environment.
(iii) The assessment must compare device output with a clinically accurate patient-
contacting relevant comparator device in an accurate and reproducible manner.
(4) A human factors and usability engineering assessment must be provided that evaluates
the risk of improper measurement.
(5) Labeling must include:
(i) A description of what the device measures and outputs to the user;
(ii) Warnings identifying sensor acquisition factors or subject conditions or
characteristics (garment types/textures, motion, etc.) that may impact
measurement results;
(iii) Guidance for interpretation of the measurements, including a statement that the
output is adjunctive to other physical vital sign parameters and patient
information;
(iv) The expected performance of the device for all intended use populations and
environments; and
(v) Robust instructions to ensure correct system setup.
BENEFIT-RISK DETERMINATION
The risks of the device are based on data collected in a clinical study described above.
The consequences of an incorrect reading would be a delay in the provision of care or
unnecessary testing. The patient could suffer harm from the delay in providing care.
However, the device has been validated to have clinically acceptable accuracy and the
probability of a patient harm related to false results is minimum.
The probable benefits of the device are also based on data collected in a clinical study as
described above.
The device can provide benefit as heart rate and respiratory rate values are obtained
without personal contact with a healthcare worker. Remote monitoring provided by the
device can minimize personnel exposure to the patient, reducing the risk of transmission
of bacteria and other infectious agents. In addition, contactless data collection provides
the opportunity for patient monitoring without contributing to patient discomfort from
electrode pads typically attached to the patient.
The Gili Pro BioSensor provides comparable accuracy to other monitoring methods.
Results were also assessed when specifically including patients experiencing arrhythmias
and performance remained consistent. For basic vital sign monitoring in these settings,
there is a high likelihood that the Gili Pro BioSensor device can offer significant
advantages over existing alternatives.
De Novo Summary (DEN200038) Page 7 of 8Patient Perspectives
This submission did not include specific information on patient perspectives for this device.
Benefit/Risk Conclusion
In conclusion, given the available information above, for the following indication statement:
The Gili Pro BioSensor (Gili BioSensor System) includes an optical module that is
intended to capture motion-vibration signals from an illuminated surface for assessment
of physiological information. Such information, captured during spot-measurement,
includes:
 Heart rate
 Respiratory rate
The device is indicated for use by or under the supervision of healthcare professionals for
adult patients in a hospital, outpatient, or other medical care settings, or for clinical
research purposes.
The device should be used while the subject is seated upright either in a chair or in a bed.
The information stored on the system may be reviewed by qualified persons.
The probable benefits outweigh the probable risks for the Gili Pro BioSensor (also known as
"Gili BioSensor System"). The device provides benefits and the risks can be mitigated by the use
of general controls and the identified special controls.
CONCLUSION
The De Novo request for the Gili Pro BioSensor (also known as "Gili BioSensor System") is
granted and the device is classified as follows:
Product Code: QOK
Device Type: Hardware and software for optical camera-based measurement of heart
rate and respiratory rate
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 870.2790
Class: II
De Novo Summary (DEN200038) Page 8 of 8