C Type of Test:
Evaluation of scanned WSIs of H&E-stained prostate needle biopsies by Artificial
Intelligence/Machine Learning (AI/ML) based algorithm to provide cancer associated prognostic
10-year risk estimates of distant metastasis (DM) and prostate cancer specific mortality (PCSM).
III Indications for Use:
A. Indication(s) for Use:
ArteraAI Prostate is a software only device intended to analyze scanned histopathology whole
slide images (WSIs) from treatment-naïve prostate core needle biopsies prepared from formalin
fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue and stained using Hematoxylin & Eosin (H&E) stains.
ArteraAI Prostate provides 10-year risks of distant metastasis and prostate cancer specific
mortality and is intended to assist physicians with prognostic risk-based decisions along with
other clinicopathological factors in non-metastatic prostate cancer patients.
ArteraAI Prostate is intended for males 55 years of age or older without clinically or
pathologically defined metastases, and who are candidates for curative intent management
(surgery, radiation therapy with or without systemic therapy, or active surveillance).
ArteraAI Prostate is intended to utilize WSIs acquired from an FDA-cleared interoperable
scanner with which ArteraAI Prostate has been authorized for use or a 510(k)-cleared scanner
that has been assessed in accordance with the Predetermined Change Control Plan (PCCP) for
qualifying additional interoperable scanners.
B Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
Warnings
1. The ArteraAI Prostate should be used in conjunction with a complete standard of care
evaluation.
2. The ArteraAI Prostate patient report is to be utilized by trained physicians after being
released by the pathology laboratory user.
3. The ArteraAI Prostate results correctness is based on the quality requirements of the slide
images and appropriate whole slide imaging scanner usage.
4. Ensure proper traceability of the scanned images to the patient using an anonymized
patient ID.
Please refer to the labeling for a complete list of warnings and precautions.
DEN240068 - Page 2 of 24• 10-year ArteraAI Prostate Categorical Risk for Distant Metastasis (High,
Intermediate, Low)
• Individual 10-year risk for Distant Metastasis (Low and Intermediate)
• 10-year ArteraAI Prostate Categorical Risk for Prostate Cancer Specific Mortality
(PCSM) (High, Intermediate, Low)
The ArteraAI Prostate patient report is intended to be interpreted by the physician to aid in
understanding the risk of DM or PCSM in the prostate cancer patient. The results are
provided to support risk-based decisions within the recommended professional guidelines.
B Principle of Operation
ArteraAI Prostate is intended to be operated within a pathology laboratory with digital scanning
capabilities. The ArteraAI Prostate workflow is depicted in Figure 1 below.
Figure 1. ArteraAI Prostate Workflow
The slide review and image selection procedure for uploading to the ArteraAI web portal is as
follows:
DEN240068 - Page 5 of 241. ArteraAI Prostate is performed on WSI images of prostate core biopsy specimen after a
patient’s diagnosis of prostate cancer per standard of care. A qualified pathologist must
have already determined that prostate cancer is present in the patient prostate core biopsy
specimen. ArteraAI Prostate is intended for use only with slide images that contain non-
metastatic prostate cancer. If there is no prostate cancer in any of the biopsy cores,
ArteraAI Prostate should not be used.
2. The pathologist will identify the WSI(s) of the biopsy specimen containing the highest
Gleason score. The WSIs are obtained using the FDA-cleared Philips Ultra Fast scanner
at 40x magnification in accordance with the scanner’s Instructions for Use.
3. The WSIs are reviewed to verify that the image is not blurry, no defects are present and
the whole tissue region is included in the image. Additional image and other related
quality control steps are performed per the ArteraAI Prostate Instructions for Use.
4. The WSI(s) and a unique patient identifier are entered as data inputs to the ArteraAI web
portal that is then transferred to Artera’s back-end infrastructure. The patient identifier is
intended to provide end-to-end traceability while protecting patient health information
privacy.
5. During the WSI transfer process, a web worker (thread) which is a web browser feature,
is used to manage the upload of the WSI to parallelize the data transfer. This allows the
image and other data upload to proceed in the background, allowing the operator to
continue interacting with the system without interruption.
6. ArteraAI Prostate uses the uploaded WSI(s) as input. Additional clinical data, if entered
into the web portal, are not used as an input to ArteraAI Prostate but are only for the
purposes of including this information in the ArteraAI Prostate Test Report.
7. ArteraAI Prostate produces a test report that summarizes the ArteraAI Prostate results
and transfers the test report to the pathology laboratory via the ArteraAI web portal.
8. The pathologist will confirm the presence of cancer within the uploaded WSI, review and
approve the report in accordance with the local laboratory procedures and release the test
report to the requesting clinician.
C. ArteraAI Prostate Prognostic Model Development
The AI algorithm used in the ArteraAI Prostate was developed using deep learning machine
learning algorithms trained on WSIs of H&E- stained prostate needle biopsy slides from
multiple, multi-center, prospective randomized controlled clinical trials and clinical studies to
assess 10-year risk of DM and PCSM. As indicated in the Table 2 below the datasets included a
representative spectrum of cases with diagnostic variability including a range of Gleason scores,
tumor stages. The model was trained on the data summarized in Table 2 below using the ground
truth of actual metastasis or prostate cancer specific mortality events experienced by the patients
in the trials from which the data is extracted. There were 1,133 distant metastasis events and 931
prostate cancer specific mortality events in the dataset used to train the model. Additional
information about training dataset is presented in Table 2 below:
DEN240068 - Page 6 of 24V Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
1. Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software
Functions; June 2023
2. CLSI document EP12-Ed3: Evaluation of Qualitative, Binary Output
Examination Performance; March 2023
3. Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality System Considerations and
Content of Premarket Submissions; September 2023
4. The 510(k) Program: Evaluating Substantial Equivalence in Premarket
Notifications [510(k)]; July 2014
5. Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: De Novo Classification Process
(Evaluation of Automatic Class III Designation); October 2021
6. Acceptance of Clinical Data to Support Medical Device Applications and
Submissions Frequently Asked Questions; February 2018
7. Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff - Factors to Consider
When Making Benefit-Risk Determinations in Medical Device Premarket Approval
and De Novo Classifications; August 2019
8. Guidance for Off-the-Shelf Software Use in Medical Devices; August 2023
9. ISO 14971 Third Edition 2019-12 Medical devices - Application of risk management to
medical devices
10. IEC 62304 Edition 1.1 2015-06 (2015). Medical device software – Software life cycle
processes
11. IEC 62366-1 Edition 1.1 2020-06 CONSOLIDATED VERSION – Medical devices –
Part 1: Application of usability engineering to medical devices
VI Performance Characteristics:
A. Analytical Performance:
The precision of ArteraAI device was evaluated in a between-site reproducibility study which
was performed at three laboratory sites in the United States. At each site, slides were scanned by
a single operator on a Philips Ultra Fast scanner at 40x objective, with one run per day and five
replicates per run, over five non-consecutive days (total number=15). Fifty-two samples
(including 6 borderline samples based on ArteraAI Prostate raw score cut-offs) were included in
the between-site reproducibility study and these samples were selected from patients with an age
at biopsy from 55 years and above, Gleason score 6 to 10, clinical stage T1 to T3, and spanning
the low-, intermediate-, and high-risk categories of the device output. The sample characteristics
are provided in Table 3 below.
DEN240068 - Page 9 of 24Figure 3. Kaplan-Meier curves for 10-Year Risk of PCSM for ArteraAI Prostate
Risk Categories (High, Intermediate, Low)
ArteraAI Prostate Categories
c. Subgroup Analysis for 10-Year Risk of DM for ArteraAI Prostate Risk Categories (Low,
Intermediate, High)
i. African American Vs Non-African American
This subgroup analysis shows that the ArteraAI Prostate risk categories for 10-year risk
of distant metastasis outputs are validated between African American and Non-African
American patients. A higher 10-year DM risk estimates for African American patients
vs non-African American patients for ArteraAI categories High (35.6% vs 27.4%) and
Low (9.0% vs 2.9%,) and overall risk (13.5% vs 7.7%) was observed (Table 9). The
number of patients from African American patient group was limited (72) and this
should be taken in consideration when using the risk estimates provided by ArteraAI
Prostate for African American patients.
DEN240068 - Page 19 of 24X Benefit/Risk Assessment:
A Summary of the Assessment of Benefit:
ArteraAI Prostate device provides 10-year categorical risk (High, Intermediate, Low)
for DM and PCSM. The device also provides a 10-year individual risk estimate of DM for Low
and Intermediate risk groups. These risk estimates in the IU population are intended to help
physicians make more informed treatment decisions. The device may help in reducing under or
over treatment of patients by estimating the risk of DM.
B Summary of the Assessment of Risk:
The probable risks associated with the use of this device are mainly due to erroneous results and
incorrect use and interpretation of test results by the healthcare providers. Incorrect test results
may be due the prognostic ArteraAI Prostate 10-year categorical risk (High, Intermediate, Low)
for DM and PCSM being reported as higher or lower than true risk and the individual risk
estimate of DM for Low and Intermediate risk groups being reported as higher or lower than true
risk. In both scenarios above, there is probable risk of mismanagement of patient care in
accordance with professional guidelines, based on false test results from this test, or incorrect
interpretation of test results.
C Patient Perspectives:
This submission did not include specific information on patient perspectives for this device.
D Summary of the Assessment of Benefit-Risk:
The probable benefit of this device was demonstrated by analytical and clinical validation studies
(refer to Section VI Performance Characteristics for details). The clinical performance of
ArteraAI device was evaluated in a clinical study which included a total of 886 patients across
three sites in the US. The pivotal clinical performance study showed that the 10-year risk of DM
for ArteraAI Prostate risk category High (28.1%) is statistically significantly higher than the
overall risk (8.1%) and this difference (20.0%) is clinically significant. The 10-year risk of DM
for ArteraAI Prostate category Low (3.3%) is statistically significantly lower than the overall risk
(8.1%) and this difference (4.8%) is clinically significant.
False test results from this test, or incorrect interpretation of test results, could result in improper
medical management of patients. The probable risks associated with false test results includes
prognostic ArteraAI Prostate 10-year categorical risk (High, intermediate, Low) for DM and
PCSM and prognostic ArteraAI 10-year individual risk estimate of DM for Low and
Intermediate risk groups being reported as higher or lower than the true risk. These risks are
mitigated by adequate analytical and clinical performance of the device. The probable risks
associated with incorrect interpretation of test results are mitigated by inclusion of adequate
instructions in the labeling on proper use of the device within the clinical workflow. Further, the
DEN240068 - Page 23 of 24test results are unlikely to be the only factor considered while making clinical decisions. These
results may support risk-based decisions within recommended guidelines.
While general controls are insufficient to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device, in
light of the mitigations provided by the special controls, the probable benefits outweigh the
probable risks for the use of the ArteraAI Prostate device.
XI Conclusion:
The De Novo request is granted, and the device is classified under the following and subject to
the special controls identified in the letter granting the De Novo request:
Product Code(s): SFH
Device Type: Software algorithm device analyzing digital images for cancer prognosis
Class: II
Regulation: 21 CFR 864.3755
DEN240068 - Page 24 of 24