DE NOVO CLASSIFICATION REQUEST FOR
SCANNAV ANATOMY PERIPHERAL NERVE BLOCK
REGULATORY INFORMATION
FDA identifies this generic type of device as:
Real-time ultrasound anatomy visualization and labeling device for ultrasound
guided regional anesthesia. This device provides real-time interpretation and enhanced
visualization of live ultrasound images by highlighting anatomical landmarks in
preparation for performing regional anesthesia.
NEW REGULATION NUMBER: 21 CFR 868.1980
CLASSIFICATION: Class II
PRODUCT CODE: QRG
BACKGROUND
DEVICE NAME: ScanNav Anatomy Peripheral Nerve Block
SUBMISSION NUMBER: DEN220024
DATE DE NOVO RECEIVED: April 25, 2022
SPONSOR INFORMATION:
Intelligent Ultrasound Limited
114-116 St. Mary Street
Hodge House, Floor 6a
Glamorganshite, United Kingdom
CF10 1DY
INDICATIONS FOR USE
ScanNav Anatomy Peripheral Nerve Block is indicated to assist qualified healthcare
professionals to identify and label the below mentioned anatomy in live ultrasound
images in preparation for ultrasound guided regional anesthesia prior to needle insertion
for patients 18 years of age or older.
The highlighting of structures in the following anatomical regions is supported:
• Axillary level brachial plexus
• Erector spinae plane
• Interscalene level brachial plexus
• Popliteal level sciatic nerve• Rectus sheath plane
• Sub-sartorial femoral triangle / Adductor canal
• Superior trunk of brachial plexus
• Supraclavicular level brachial plexus
• Longitudinal suprainguinal fascia iliaca plane
ScanNav Anatomy Peripheral Nerve Block is an accessory to compatible general-purpose
diagnostic ultrasound systems.
LIMITATIONS
The sale, distribution, and use of the ScanNav Peripheral Nerve Block are restricted to
prescription use in accordance with 21 CFR 801.109.
The device is not intended to be used as a stand-alone diagnostic device.
The device should be used by qualified healthcare professionals with the skills and
expertise to independently perform ultrasound guided regional anesthesia procedures.
The device output does not reduce the operator’s responsibility for informed clinical
judgement and best clinical procedure.
PLEASE REFER TO THE LABELING FOR A COMPLETE LIST OF WARNINGS,
PRECAUTIONS AND CONTRAINDICATIONS.
DEVICE DESCRIPTION
ScanNav Anatomy Peripheral Nerve Block is a software medical device which assists
anesthetists and other qualified healthcare professionals in the identification of
anatomical structures within ultrasound images during ultrasound-guided regional
anesthesia (UGRA) procedures by highlighting the relevant anatomical structures in real-
time.
Figure 1: The display screen with anatomical features highlighted
De Novo Summary (DEN220024) Page 2 of 15Highlighting colors as follows:
Arteries - Red
Bones -Cyan
Bowel -Brown
Fascial planes - Orange
Lung -Brown
Muscles -Green
Nerve -Yellow
Pleural line -Purple
The device performs the highlighting by using deep learning artificial intelligence
technology based on convolutional neural networks (CNNs). These deep-learning models
generate a colored overlay that allows the user to identify the specific anatomical
structures of interest for the procedure. A separate monitor displays the highlighted
images as an overlay on top of the ultrasound image, so the original view from the
ultrasound machine is not affected. The deep learning models are locked, and they do not
continue to learn in the field.
The device interfaces with ultrasound machine with an external monitor output that meets
the compatibility requirements. The ScanNav Anatomy Peripheral Nerve Block is run on
a mobile computing platform (a commercial off the shelf panel PC) performing the
processing with an integrated touchscreen monitor to display the user interface and
anatomy highlighting
The Software as a Medical Device is packaged with a tablet PC, power cable, compatible
plug, and mounting bracket and instructions for mounting the tablet to the ultrasound
host. This acts as a separate monitor to display the highlighted images as an overlay on
top of the ultrasound image, so the original view from the ultrasound machine is not
affected. The ScanNav Anatomy Peripheral Nerve Block system is composed of a
De Novo Summary (DEN220024) Page 3 of 15software medical device and other non-medical devices such as a panel PC, power
supply, an HDMI interface cable and a VESA mount as outlined in the figures below:
Figure 2: ScanNav Anatomy Peripheral Nerve Block system connected to Ultrasound
scanning machine
Figure 3: High level workflow from block selection to ready to inject anesthetics
Return to Hom~
screen , .
procedure Review
usine Reference
ultrasound material
machine
Rea.dy, 0
oniec: ,
De Novo Summary (DEN220024) Page 4 of 15SUMMARY OF NONCLINICAL/BENCH STUDIES
ELECTROMAGNETIC CAPABILITY & ELECTRICAL SAFETY
Electrical safety and electromagnetic compatibility testing has been performed per
IEC 60601-1-12 Edition 1.1 2020-07 CONSOLIDATED VERSION
Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-12: General requirements for basic safety and
essential performance - Collateral Standard: Requirements for medical electrical
equipment and medical electrical systems intended for use in the emergency medical
services environment, and IEC 60601-1-2 Edition 4.1 2020-09 CONSOLIDATED
VERSION Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-2: General requirements for basic safety
and essential performance - Collateral Standard: Electromagnetic disturbances -
Requirements and tests. The test results support electrical safety and electromagnetic
compatibility.
MAGNETIC RESONANCE (MR) COMPATIBILITY
The subject device is considered MR Unsafe. Appropriate MR safety symbol is included
in the labeling.
SOFTWARE
The ScanNav Anatomy Peripheral Nerve Block software documentation was reviewed
according to the FDA Guidance document, Guidance for the Content of Premarket
Submissions for Software Contained in Medical Devices, issued May 11, 2005. The
software was found to have a Major Level of Concern, because failure or latent flaw
could directly result in death or serious injury to the patient prior to risk mitigation. The
software documentation included management of cybersecurity and:
1. Software Description
2. Device Hazard Analysis
3. Software Requirements Specification
4. Architecture Design Chart
5. Software Design Specification
6. Traceability Analysis
7. Software Development Environment Description
8. Verification and Validation Documentation
9. Revision Level History
10. Unresolved Anomalies
The software documentation provided in support of the ScanNav Anatomy Peripheral
Nerve Block was found to be acceptable.
HUMAN FACTORS TESTING
De Novo Summary (DEN220024) Page 5 of 15Thirty (30) anesthesiologists participated in this summative usability validation st-udy
starting on February 11, 2022, and completing on February 17, 2022. The study took
-
(b) (4) (b) (4)
place in a simulated interventional procedural lab setting at in
(b) (4) , USA.
This study had two cohorts:
• One cohort consisted of 15 Expert Anesthesiologists competent in independently
performing UGRA.
• One cohort consisted of 15 Trainee Anesthesiologists undergoing training for UGRA
procedures
All study participants completed the essential and critical tasks.
The study participants completed the following three parts of the study:
1. Performance-based use scenario tasks and associated root cause analysis (RCA),
when needed
2. Knowledge Task and Labeling Validation and associated root cause analysis
(RCA), when needed
3. Interview/subjective discussion
The data obtained during the summative study were analyzed to determine whether any
aspect of the final design of the UI were implicated or pointed out by test participants as a
source of difficulties with use, close call, use error, or task failure. The analysis did not
find any UI design issues that might impact the safe and effective use of the device. No
issues were found that required reconsideration or major modification of the UI design.
There were no patterns of use failures, confusion, or difficulties.
SUMMARY OF CLINICAL INFORMATION
(b) (4)
Study was carried out over ■ days at Oregon Health & Science University (OHSU),
Portland, USA in May 2021.
Study Objective – To gather evidence on the clinical benefit of ScanNav Anatomy PNB
for identification of anatomical structures during UGRA scanning, in particular:
a. Assess the benefits of the device to intended users when supervising a trainee who
is performing UGRA scanning.
b. Assess the benefits of the device when intended users perform UGRA scanning.
c. Assess risk mitigation by the intended users when performing UGRA scanning.
Clinical Validation Study to assess Performance and predict Adverse Events:
De Novo Summary (DEN220024) Page 6 of 15A single center, prospective validation study [IU2021_AG_07] in the US was conducted
on 40 volunteers by the intended users for the specified 9 block regions. The aim of the
study was to assess and quantify the correct/incorrect highlighting of anatomical
structures associated with subject device during UGRA scanning. The Primary endpoint
was Frequency of misidentification of structures [%of total, per anatomical region] with
ScanNav Anatomy PNB highlighting. Secondary outcome measures were frequency of
correct identification of structures, and frequency of non-identification of structures as
well as frequency of safety issues and probable adverse events. Clinicians scanning were
anesthesiologists competent to perform independent UGRA. Sonosite Xport and
SonoSite PX were used. 10 second scene clips were taken prior to “optimum block”
image acquisition. Eighty 10s scene clips were acquired and ten 10s non-scene clips were
acquired as well for analyses.
Post-hoc, device output of device was incorporated for each scene. Three expert
anesthesiologists in UGRA viewed clips side by side to assess safety and performance of
Anatomy PNB.
Figure 4: Example review video of side-by-side captured ultrasound and Scan Nav
Anatomy PNB
Experts answered questions on performance of highlighting by device to determine TP,
TN, FP, and FN, AEs [PONS, Pneumothorax, LAST, Block failure. Majority opinion
[2/3] determined above rates.
Nerve block procedures were not performed as part of the study, therefore the ability of
the device to mitigate risks associated with adverse events are unknown.
De Novo Summary (DEN220024) Page 7 of 15Using the following definitions below, performance was quantified for each block.
Measure Answers Assessment Classification
(2/3
majority )
TP (b) (4) (b) (4) Correct identification
TN Not visible
FP Mis-identification
FN Non-identification
Error Overall error
Safety Issue Safety issue
Adverse Event Adverse event
Block failure Block failure
De Novo Summary (DEN220024) Page 8 of 15(b) (4) (b) (4)
Non-scenes Non-scene
Primary Endpoint Analyses:
Block- all views Exact FP Rate Percent
(Misidentification)
Axillary 0.003 0.3 %
ESP 0.000 0%
IS 0.013 1.3%
Pop 0.006 0.6%
RS 0.032 3.2%
Adductor 0.000 0%
ST 0.052 5.2%
SC 0.008 0.8%
SFIC 0.219 21.9%
Secondary endpoint analyses:
ScanNav Anatomy PNB highlighting
a)Frequency of correct identification of structures (>=80% of total)
Block- all views Exact Accuracy Rate Percent
(TP+TN)
Axillary 0.977 97.7%
ESP 0.888 88.8%
IS 0.941 94.1%
Pop 0.981 98.1%
RS 0.968 96.8%
Adductor 0.904 90.4%
ST 0.909 90.9%
SC 0.983 98.3%
SFIC 0.762 76.2%
AEs Rate: A
Adverse Event Rate
De Novo Summary (DEN220024) Page 9 of 15The secondary endpoint was defined as:
ScanNav Anatomy PNB Adverse Events: Frequency of highlighting risking an adverse event (<=5% of
total)
Block PONS risk LAST risk Pneumothorax Risk Peritoneum risk
Axillary (b) (4) (b) (4) I n/a n/a
IS n/a n/a n/a
Pop I(b ) (4) I n/a n/a
Add I I n/a n/a
ST n/a n/a n/a
SC n/a (b) (4) I n/a
ESP n/a n/a I n/a
RS n/a n/a n/a (b) (4) I
SFIC n/a (b) (4) I n/a n/a
The study did not include the nerve block procedure, and there is no actual data on the potential adverse
events associated with the procedure
Non-Scene analyses were as following:
Risk of mistaking an incorrect view as a correct view Present
Increased (b) (4)
No change
Reduced
No Consensus
Th-ey concluded that in 70% of the cases, the highlighting significantly reduces the risk of
mistaking an incorrect site for the correct block where as incorrect highlighting increased the risk
(b) (4)
in
HF Study Design
To provide evidence for the clinical benefits of ScanNav Anatomy PNB, Intelligent
Ultrasound ltd undertook a comprehensive prospective clinical study with 15 participants
(experts in UGRA) and 15 trainees in Portland, United States. The 15 expert participants
were all capable of independent clinical practice of UGRA, and therefore met the
intended user definition.
Participant Demographics
Expert- All 15 expert participants deliver regular clinical care using UGRA, and 14- of
participants are members of relevant professional society (e.g., ASA, ASRA, ESRA, RA-
(b) (4)
UK), and/or regularly teach UGRA. An impressive majority of participants (n=11,
hold advanced further training in UGRA.
De Novo Summary (DEN220024) Page 10 of 15-
(b) (4)
Trainee - Seven (n=7, ) trainees deliver regular clinical care using UGRA, and 13 of
-trainees are members of relevant professional society (e.g., ASA, ASRA-, ESRA, RA-
UK). Unsurprisingly, none of the trainees regularly teach UGRA. A few trainees (n=2,
(b) (4) hold an advanced further training in UGR-A. Most trainees (n=11, (b) (4) ) deliver
under ( ■ b) (4)b locks annually, with two (n=2, 1(b1) 1(41) trainees having no experience of any
clinical PNB procedures. Most trainees (n=12,(b) (4) do not practice PNB independently.
(b) (4)
Of the trainees that have carried out PNB procedures, the majority ( )
stated that they always use ultrasound guidance to perform PNB blocks.
ScanNav Anatomy PNB performance was evaluated in the following manner:
• ScanNav Anatomy PNB performance was assessed by study attendees on 2
models, one of BMI <30 kg/m2, one of BMI =>30kg/m2. Both trainee and expert
I
(b) (4)
attendees performed scans with and without the aid of the device, on each
model.
• A block evaluation questionnaire was issued to assess device accuracy and safety
immediately after using the device in practice. The block evaluation questionnaire
was designed to evaluate safety critical structures described in Section 3.16.
Ultrasound scans performed during the study were recorded for later analysis.
• Additional benefits were evaluated by assessing the ScanNav Anatomy PNB
performance by an intended user supervising another healthcare professional
(who is qualified to perform these procedures under supervision). These benefits
were assessed using a questionnaire.
• An expert panel independently evaluated ScanNav Anatomy PNB highlighting
on the scans recorded from the study. These data were compared to the
evaluations made by the attendees during the study.
The study was designed to evaluate the use and benefits of the ScanNav Anatomy PNB
device in a simulated clinical environment. The device was used by the study participants
to perform several scans on two volunteer models, one with low BMI (<30kg/m2) and
one with high BMI (>=30kg/m2), to ascertain the device’s performance, safety, benefits,
and risks via a questionnaire.
Following the data collection phase, recordings of the scans performed by participants
were presented to a panel of three (3) independent experts. The scan data was displayed
side-by-side with the corresponding device highlighting. The experts reviewed the
entirety of each recorded scan and completed the same questionnaire as participants. The
majority panel view of the device’s performance and safety profile for each scan was
compared to the corresponding view of the expert participant.
The primary endpoint for the study was:
De Novo Summary (DEN220024) Page 11 of 15i. Device assists participants in obtaining the correct ultrasound view of the
anatomy prior to needle insertion [majority view, at least 8/15 participants in
agreement]
The secondary endpoints were:
i. ScanNav Anatomy PNB assists intended users in the identification of anatomical
structures in
adult patients, up to BMI 35 kg/m2 [majority view, at least 8/15 participants in
agreement].
ii. Device assists participants in supervision and training in anatomical structure
identification for
UGRA scanning [majority view, at least 8/15 participants in agreement]
iii. Device improves operator confidence [majority view, at least 8/15 participants in
agreement]
Study Results
The predefined primary endpoint was met, and the study data shows that ScanNav
Anatomy PNB assisted 63% (19/30) of the study participants to obtain the correct
ultrasound view.
All predefined secondary endpoints were also met:
a. ScanNav Anatomy PNB assisted 70% (21/30) of participants to identify the
anatomical structures relevant to UGRA.
b. ScanNav Anatomy PNB assisted 87% (13/15) of experts to supervise and train of
trainees to identify anatomical structures relevant to UGRA procedures.
c. ScanNav Anatomy PNB improved the confidence of 63% (19/30) of participants
while scanning for UGRA.
Pediatric Extrapolation
ScanNav Anatomy Peripheral Nerve Block is indicated for patients age 18 and older. For
medical devices, the FD&C Act defines patients before their 22nd birthday as pediatric
patients. In this De Novo request, existing clinical data were not leveraged to support the
use of the device in a pediatric patient population.
LABELING
ScanNav Anatomy Peripheral Nerve Block labeling consists of Instructions for Use that
includes a detailed summary of the clinical evaluation. The Instructions for Use should
also include appropriate warnings and cautions associated with potential over reliance on
device output in clinical setting.
De Novo Summary (DEN220024) Page 12 of 15Intended Users:
Anatomy PNB is intended to be used by or under supervision of an anesthesiologist who
is competent to perform UGRA independently:
U.S. board-eligible/board-certified and licensed Medical Doctor meeting the following
criteria:
• Completed advanced training (e.g., fellowship) in or hold a qualification related to
UGRA
• Regularly delivers direct clinical care using UGRA, including for ‘awake’ surgery
where indicated
• Regularly teach UGRA in the course of their clinical work, including advanced
techniques where indicated
Training requirements for users:
Users will not be provided any formal training on the use of the device. However, for the
safe and effective use of the device, Anatomy PNB, shall be provided with the
instructions for use, product overview video and the QuickStart guide.
RISKS TO HEALTH
The table below identifies the risks to health that may be associated with use of a real-
time ultrasound anatomy visualization and labeling device for ultrasound guided regional
anesthesia and the measures necessary to mitigate the risks
Identified Risks to Health Mitigation Measures
Adverse events due to inaccurate Clinical performance testing
location identification for ultrasound Human factors testing
guided procedures Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis
Labeling
Users without expertise operating the Labeling
device leading to adverse events or
ineffective procedure
Procedure delay due to corruption in Clinical performance testing
image transfer or software failure Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis
SPECIAL CONTROLS
In combination with the general controls of the FD&C Act, the real-time ultrasound anatomy
visualization and labeling device for ultrasound guided regional anesthesia is subject to the
following special controls:
De Novo Summary (DEN220024) Page 13 of 15(1) Clinical performance testing under anticipated conditions of use must evaluate the
location accuracy of anatomical landmarks identified by the device.
(2) Human factors testing must demonstrate that the user can correctly use the device to
identify anatomical structures, based solely on reading the instructions for use.
(3) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed, including
demonstrated compatibility with ultrasound devices labeled to be compatible with the
device.
(4) Labeling must include
(i) The recommended training for safe use of the device;
(ii) Pertinent details of the clinical data collected to evaluate the performance of the
device; and
(iii) A warning against over-reliance on device output.
BENEFIT-RISK DETERMINATION
The risks of the device are based on data collected in a clinical study and human factors
study described above.
1. Adverse events due to inaccurate location identification for nerve blocks (eg., local
anesthesia systemic toxicity (LAST), perioperative neurologic syndrome (PONS),
Pneumothorax, Peritoneal violation).
2. Ineffective nerve blocks due to misinterpretation of anatomical structures by the device.
3. Users without specific clinical expertise operating the device
4. Ineffective nerve blocks and treatment delay due to corruption in image transfer
The probable benefits of the device are also based on data collected in a clinical study as
described above.
The benefits are subjectively assessed and include:
1. A 25% response consensus that device assisted or helped expert participants [intended
users] when identifying the relevant anatomical structures per block while 5% hindered
or made it harder to identify anatomical structures in this cohort.
-
2. A 70% reduction that device use mitigated risk of mistaking an incorrect view as a
correct view while it increased the same by (b) (4)
Patient Perspectives
De Novo Summary (DEN220024) Page 14 of 15This submission did not include specific information on patient perspectives for this
device.
Benefit/Risk Conclusion
In conclusion, given the available information above, for the following indication
statement:
ScanNav Anatomy Peripheral Nerve Block is indicated to assist qualified healthcare
professionals to identify and label the below mentioned anatomy in live ultrasound
images in preparation for ultrasound guided regional anesthesia prior to needle insertion
for patients 18 years of age or older.
The highlighting of structures in the following anatomical regions is supported:
• Axillary level brachial plexus
• Erector spinae plane
• Interscalene level brachial plexus
• Popliteal level sciatic nerve
• Rectus sheath plane
• Sub-sartorial femoral triangle / Adductor canal
• Superior trunk of brachial plexus
• Supraclavicular level brachial plexus
• Longitudinal suprainguinal fascia iliaca plane
ScanNav Anatomy Peripheral Nerve Block is an accessory to compatible general-purpose
diagnostic ultrasound systems.
The probable benefits outweigh the probable risks for the ScanNav Anatomy Peripheral
Nerve Block. The device provides benefits, and the risks can be mitigated by the use of
general controls and the identified special controls.
CONCLUSION
The De Novo request for the ScanNav Anatomy Peripheral Nerve Block is granted and the
device is classified as follows:
Product Code: QRG
Device Type: Real-time ultrasound anatomy visualization and labeling device for
Ultrasound Guided Regional Anesthesia
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 868.1980
Class: II
De Novo Summary (DEN220024) Page 15 of 15