DE Novo CLASSIFICATION REQUEST FOR
FIBRESOLVE
REGULATORY INFORMATION
FDA identifies this generic type of device as:
Radiology software for referral of findings related to fibrotic lung disease.
Radiology software for referral of findings related to fibrotic lung disease is a
prescription image processing device that analyzes computed tomography images to
suggest the presence of disease or of an imaging fmding suggestive of disease. The
output of this device is intended to be used as adjunctive information as part of a referral
pathway in the overall diagnostic assessment process.
NEW REGULATION NUMBER: 21 CFR 892.2085
CLASSIFICATION: Class II
PRODUCT CODE: QWO
BACKGROUND
DEVICE NAME: Fibresolve
SUBMISSION NUMBER: DEN220040
DATE DE NOVO RECEIVED: June 29, 2022
SPONSOR INFORMATION:
Imvaria, Inc.
2930 Domingo Ave, #1496
Berkeley, CA 94705
INDICATIONS FOR USE
Fibresolve is a software-only device that receives and analyzes lung computed
tomography (CT) imaging data in order to provide a diagnostic subtype classification in
suspected cases of interstitial lung disease (ILD). The device supplements the standard-
of-care workflow by providing a qualitative, diagnostic classification output of imaging
findings based on machine learning pattern recognition, in order to provide adjunctive
information as part of a referral pathway to an appropriate Multidisciplinary Discussion
(MDD) or as part of an MDD. Specifically, the tool is used to serve as an adjunct in the
diagnosis of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) prior to invasive testing. The results of
Fibresolve are intended to be used only by clinicians qualified in the care of lung disease,specifically in caring for patients with ILD, in conjunction with the patient's clinical
history, symptoms, and other diagnostic tests, as well as the clinician's professional
judgment.
The input to Fibresolve is a DICOM-compliant lung CT scan. Clinical case eligibility
includes the following criteria:
Age > 22 years old.
Pulmonary symptoms suggestive of possible ILD including IPF.
LIMITATIONS
• The sale, distribution, and use of the Fibresolve are restricted to prescription use in
accordance with 21 CFR 801.109.
• Fibresolve cannot be used to rule out IPF.
• Always ensure results should be used in conjunction with other clinical and diagnostic
findings, consistent with professional standards of practice, including information
obtained by alternative methods, and clinical evaluation, as appropriate. The output
should not be solely relied upon as the sole determinant for referral and adequate patient
follow-up or management.
• Series slice thickness must be < 3mm.
PLEASE REFER TO THE LABELING FOR A COMPLETE LIST OF WARNINGS,
PRECAUTIONS AND CONTRAINDICATIONS.
DEVICE DESCRIPTION
Fibresolve is a Software as a Medical Device (SaMD) for the qualitative disease assessment of
DICOM-compliant chest computed tomography (CT) imaging for the detection of image content
consistent with patterns found in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). Fibresolve
uses a deep learning algorithm that assesses CT images for patterns consistent with specific
disease diagnosis, identifying patterns consistent with IPF among cases of Interstitial Lung
Disease (ILD). Fibresolve produces a binary output ("Suggestive of IPF" or "Inconclusive").
Fibresolve does not provide any visual aid to the clinician to assist in interpreting the image.
The device consists of the following 3 components: (1) Image Receiver application programming
interface (API) for image acquisition in the cloud; (2) Ingestion Pipeline and Analysis System for
image processing and analysis; and (3) Output API for device output transmission.
(1)The Image Receiver API is accessed via any DICOM-compliant system (e.g., PACS). Images
are submitted through the API by the hospital or clinic, or by the manufacturer. The API passes
the images to the Ingestion Pipeline and Analysis System (2). The input to the device is a single
stack of axial slice, DICOM-compliant, 3 mm thickness or less lung CT images from a list of
validated device manufacturers.
(2)(a) The Ingestion Pipeline and (b) Analysis System accepts the images, selects cases
appropriate for processing, processes the images for analyses, analyzes the images, and stores the
De Novo Summary (DEN220040) Page 2 of 10images. This Analysis System includes the analysis algorithm that generates the assessment for
the case. The device outputs a report which includes identifying information and technical details
about the case data and a binary result stating whether the data are determined to be suggestive
for the target disease state.
• The Ingestion Pipeline identifies applicable CT imaging series from the case and verifies
that the series is valid, completes quality checks, and confirms adequacy for analysis.
• The analysis algorithm is a 3D deep learning model developed and trained using images
from multiple facilities. No segmentation is performed as part of the Analysis Algorithm.
(3) The Output API transmits the report data for the clinician to review. The Output API is either
integrated into the hospital or clinic notification software (e.g., electronic health record) for
electronic transmission or the device manufacturer transmits the Report in human-readable
format directly (e.g., via fax). The clinician then incorporates the device Report as part of
diagnostic decision-making.
The system does not include an image viewer or produce visual output for diagnostic use.
Design Limitation: The device does not interpret images according to established clinical
radiological features; the device cannot be used to infer the presence or absence of radiological
features associated with the disease or condition named in the indications for use.
SUMMARY OF NON-CLINICAL/BENCH STUDIES
Software
The Fibresolve software documentation and testing provided demonstrate that the device meets
all requirements outlined in the FDA guidance document, "Guidance for the Content of
Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical Devices" for software of moderate
concern.
SUMMARY OF CLINICAL INFORMATION
Performance Testing
The device's standalone performance as well as the performance in comparison to a clinical
comparator were provided. The data used in all performance testing was sourced from the Lung
Tissue Research Consortium (LTRC), with the dataset collected from sites independent from
those used in device development. In total, 300 ILD cases were included, with primary analysis
centered on a subset of 137 cases with CT reconstruction slice thickness <3 mm. Information on
patient age, sex, race, ethnicity, smoking status, as well as CT manufacturer, site, and slice
thickness were provided.
Table 1: Age, sex, and CT manufacturer information for all 300 cases and in the slice thickness
<3 mm subset.
De Novo Summary (DEN220040) Page 3 of 10Full ataset ice Thickness <=3 mm (n.1
Age <=40 5.0 4.3
41-50 10.0 9.5
51-60 28.0 25.5
61-70 41.3 43.8
>70 15.7 16.8
Sox Female 49.7 46.7
- Male 50.3 53.2
Manufacturer GE Medical Systems 27.0 10.9
- Philips 7.7 5.1
- Siemens 63.0 81.8
- Toshiba .7.3 2.1
Study Limitation: The test dataset acquisition period ranges from 2005 until 2018. The study
results may not generalize for cases acquired with more modern equipment and imaging
protocols. Special controls (including postmarket data collection) are employed to mitigate the
risk associated with uncertain device performance for modern images.
The primary clinical comparator was an Expert Panel (EP, n=5), composed of expert
pulmonologists and thoracic radiologists, who performed a chart review blinded to the diagnostic
outcome and to all invasive testing, but given access to chart information such as demographics;
relevant histories such as medical, smoking, and environmental exposures; medications,
pulmonary function tests; rheumatic serologies; and CT imaging. The panel was instructed to
return a binary result based on the 2018 ATS IPF Guidelines for the non-invasive diagnosis of
IPF, which require a definite usual interstitial pneumonia (UIP) pattern by high resolution CT in
conjunction with certain other chart information (Raghu et al. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2018;
198(5):e44-e68). Experts were instructed to not identify probable UIP radiographic criteria as
IPF.
Study Limitation: Since completion of the study, Guidelines for the non-invasive diagnosis of IPF
have been revised (Raghu et al. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2022; 205(9):e18-e47). These
revisions broaden the CT requirements needed for the non-invasive diagnosis to also include the
Probable UIP pattern category, when considered alongside other chart information. Therefore,
the Expert Panel in the study operated according to more stringent decision criteria than is
currently recommended, and may have exhibited a higher specificity and lower sensitivity than
would be expected in current clinical practice as a result.
The LTRC data included reference standard diagnoses, used to establish device and EP
performance. The reference standard diagnosis was assigned to each case by an MDD from the
LTRC, assessing all clinical, imaging, laboratory, demographic, and pathologic data with an
average of approximately 1-year of clinical information for patients in the registry. Final clinical
diagnosis was provided. From the total 300-case dataset, 83 IPF cases were identified, with 217
non-IPF, consisting of a variety of other diagnoses including unclassifiable interstitial lung
disease (18%), chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis (17%), and nonspecific interstitial
pneumonia (11%). In the subset of cases with slice thickness <3 mm, the radiological UIP
pattern category was further retrospectively assigned by panel consensus, which was separately
composed of an expert pulmonologist and radiologist pair.
De Novo Summary (DEN220040) Page 4 of 10Study Limitation: The reference standard diagnoses in the test dataset were established from
2005 until 2018. Imaging practices and interpretation guidelines for patients suspected of having
an ILD have changed significantly in the past two decades, raising the uncertainty that the
reference standard diagnoses used in performance testing reflect current clinical diagnosis
practices. Special controls (including postmarket data collection) are employed to mitigate the
risk associated with uncertain device performance arising from uncertain reference standard
determination.
The primary endpoints of the study were that the device specificity surpass a pre-specified value
of 80%, and that the device sensitivity be non-inferior to the EP.
Study Limitation: The Agency disagrees with these endpoints. Splitting sensitivity and specificity
primary endpoints to different comparators is not statistically sound as it favors the device in
both comparisons, by comparing the sensitivity to a control with a high decision threshold and
the specificity to a control with a lower decision threshold. Nevertheless, the totality of evidence
regarding device accuracy suggests that it offers a small probable benefit when considered as
part of a referral pathway to an MDD or as part of an MDD. The current challenges of
diagnosis of IPF were given weight in this assessment.
In the total 300-case dataset, both endpoints were met, with device sensitivity 41% (95% CI: 30-
52%) and specificity 87% (95% CI: 81-91%); and EP sensitivity 13% (95% CI 6.8-23) and
specificity 96% (95% CI: 93-98%). For the relevant <3 mm slice thickness subgroups:
Table 2: Device Performance per slice thickness
Slice Group n Sensitivity Specificity PPV
<1.5 mm 55 56% [CI 31-78%] 68% [CI 50-82%) 45% [CI: 24-68%]
>. 1.5 mm. <3 mm 42 50% [CI: 23-77%] 93% [CI: 76-99%] 78% [CI: 40-97%]
3 mm 40 63% [CI: 24-91%) 91% [CI: 75-98%) 63% [CI: 24-91%]
<= 3 mm 137 55% [CI: 39-71%] 82% [CI: 73-89%] 56% [CI: 40-72%)
Table 3: EP Performance per slice thickness
Slice Group n Sensitivity Specificity PPV
<1.5 mm 55 11% [CI 1-35%) 92% [CI 78-98%) 40% [CI: 5-85%]
>. 1.5 mm, < 3 mm 42 21% [Cl: 5-51%] 96% [CI: 82-99%) 75% [Cl: 19-99%]
3 mm 40 38% [CI: 9-76%1 97% [CI: 84-99%) 75% [CI: 19-99%]
<-= 3 mm 137 20% [CI: 9-36%] 95% [CU 88-98%) 62% [Cl: 32-86%]
In on-label <3 mm slice thicknesses, the device's sensitivity and specificity were 55% (95% CI:
39-71%) and specificity 82% (95% CI: 73-89%); and EP sensitivity 20% (95% CI 9-36%) and
specificity 95% (95% CI: 88-98%). The PPV (positive predictive value) was similar between the
device and the EP. The device appears to identify true positive IPF patients, at the expense of a
high rate of false positives (specificity lower bound of 73%). This tradeoff offers a positive
benefit-risk determination, considering the benefits provided by an early IPF diagnosis. This is
De Novo Summary (DEN220040) Page 5 of 10provided that the risks associated with additional workup and treatment that a false positive non-
IPF patient would be exposed to are mitigated by appropriate MDD review.
Study Limitation: The device specificity was lower than 80% in relevant <3 mm slice groups,
with confidence intervals extending down to 73% for the total <3 mm slice group. Appropriate
labeling places device interpretation firmly within a referral pathway to an MDD or as part of
an MDD to mitigate the risk that a false positive could be inappropriately treated for IPF or that
a false positive could potentially forego potentially curative treatment for another fibrotic lung
disease. The device's performance suggests that there is a small probable benefit for the device,
and special controls (including postmarket data collection) are employed to reduce the risk
associated with uncertain device performance.
Table 4: Device performance within radiologically defined UIP categories in <3 mm slices
Fibresolve Performance in Diagnosing n Sensitivity Specificity P PV
IPF
Fibresolve in Definite UIP 19 67% [CI: .'-;•,- 25.0% [CI: 1-81(-(- I 77% [CI: 46-
88%] 95%1
Fibresolve in Probable UIP 27 (,-i' [CI: 35- 62% [CI: 32-86%] 64% [CI: 35-
s7%] 87%1
Fibresolve in Indeterminate UIP s N/A 80.0% [CI: 28- N/A
99%]
Fibresolve in Alternative Diagnosis 8() 27% [CI: 6-61%] 89% [CI: 80-95%] 27% [CI: 6-61%)
Table 5: EP performance within radiologically defined UIP categories in <3 mm slices
ECP Performance in Diagnosing IPF n Sensitivity Specificity PPV
ECP in Definite UIP 19 33% [CI: 12-62%1 25% [CI: 1-81%1 6 ,:i [CI: 24-91%)
ECP in Probable UIP 27 21% [CI: 5-51%1 100% ICI: 75-100% I 100% [CI: 29-100%1
ECP in Indeterminate UIP 5 N/A 100% [Cl: 48-100%] N/A
ECP in Alternative Diagnosis 86 0% [CI: 0-28%] 97% [Cl: 91-99%] 0% [Cl: 0-84%]
The device and EP performance in relevant radiological UIP categories shows potential
differences according to those categories, although subgroups were not powered so these
differences are not known to be statistically significant. The device may identify more patients as
probable IPF than human readers, as suggested by differences in sensitivity between the device
and EP. Some of these patients may especially benefit from consideration by an MDD, which
may otherwise be delayed or foregone. However, the reported specificity of the device points to
a high false positive rate. Interpretation of results by an MDD is critical to ensure that the
benefits of the device for true positive IPF patients outweigh the risks of the device for false
positive patients with other ILDs that have very different prognoses and treatment paths.
Study Limitation: The device specificity was lower than 80% in relevant radiological UIP
pattern groups, with wide confidence intervals. Furthermore, there was low representation of the
"Indeterminate UIP" category (n=5), which makes it difficult to draw any substantive
conclusions regarding the device or EP performance in that group. Appropriate labeling places
De Novo Summary (DEN220040) Page 6 of 10device interpretation firmly within a referral pathway to an MDD or as part of an MDD to
mitigate the risk that a false positive could be inappropriately treated for IPF or that a false
positive could potentially forego potentially curative treatment for another disease. In this
context, the device's performance suggests that there is a small probable benefit for the device,
and special controls (including postmarket data collection) are employed to reduce the risk
associated with uncertain device performance.
Pediatric Extrapolation
In this De Novo request, existing clinical data were not leveraged to support the use of the device
in a pediatric patient population.
POSTMARKET SURVEILLANCE
The results of device performance testing suggest that it offers a small probable benefit within
the intended context of use. However, as discussed in Study Limitation notes above, there were
several issues that increased the uncertainty associated with these results. Considering the
challenges associated with assembling data pertaining to the diagnosis of this uncommon
disease, FDA is requiring a postmarket surveillance study be employed to further elucidate
device performance, using modern imaging data for the on-label slice thicknesses. The results of
this study are intended to be used to update device labeling in the future to narrow the
uncertainty associated with the device performance in important clinical categories, such that the
user can better understand and incorporate the adjunctive information provided by the device
into their clinical decision making.
LABELING
The labeling meets the requirements of 21 CFR 801.109 for prescription devices and includes
information on device inputs and outputs, instructions for use, intended patient population and
intended users of the device, adequate warnings and precautions as well as detailed performance
testing summaries. Placement of the device as part of a referral pathway to an appropriate MDD
or as part of an MDD is clearly stated, and there are warnings that clinical decisions should not
be based solely upon the device's output and that the device cannot be used to rule out IPF.
Postmarket data collection and its purpose is acknowledged in labeling.
RISKS TO HEALTH
The table below identifies the risks to health that may be associated with use of a radiology
software for referral of findings related to fibrotic lung disease and the measures necessary to
mitigate these risks.
Identified Risks to Health Mitigation Measures
False positive findings leading to harmful incorrect Clinical performance testing
and/or delayed management of a patient with an Postmarket surveillance
alternative underlying fibrotic lung disease. Labeling
False negative findings leading to harmful incorrect Clinical performance testing
and/or delayed management of a patient with a fibrotic Postmarket surveillance
lung disease Labeling
Incorrect and/or delayed patient management due to the Clinical performance testing
De Novo Summary (DEN220040) Page 7 of 10device being misused to analyze images from an Postmarket surveillance
unintended patient population or from images acquired Labeling
with incompatible imaging hardware or image
acquisition parameters
Incorrect and/or delayed patient management due to Labeling
misinterpretation of device output or overreliance on
device output for radiological image interpretation
Device failure leading to the absence of results, delay of Software verification, validation,
results, or incorrect results, leading to inaccurate or and hazard analysis
delayed patient assessment
SPECIAL CONTROLS
In combination with the general controls of the FD&C Act, radiology software for referral of
findings related to fibrotic lung disease is subject to the following special controls:
(1) Data obtained from premarket clinical performance validation testing and postmarket
surveillance acquired under anticipated conditions of use must demonstrate that the device
performs as intended when used to analyze data from the intended patient population, unless
FDA determines based on the totality of the information provided for premarket review that
data from postmarket surveillance is not required. The following must be met:
(i) Validation report(s) must include a detailed description of the data, criteria, and
methods used to define the reference standard that were used to evaluate device
performance. The reference standard used in the clinical validation must be justified
for the condition named in the device's indications for use.
(ii)The performance of the device must be compared to an appropriate clinical control,
e.g. the performance or agreement of clinicians performing the same task.
(iii)The performance assessment must be based on pre-specified diagnostic accuracy
measures (e.g., receiver operator characteristic plot, sensitivity, specificity,
positive/negative predictive values, and diagnostic likelihood ratios).
(iv)Test datasets must contain a sufficient number of cases from important cohorts (i.e.,
subsets defined by clinically relevant demographics, confounders, effect modifiers,
concomitant diseases, challenging cases such as early disease, and subsets defined by
image acquisition characteristics) such that the performance estimates and confidence
intervals of the device for these individual subsets can be characterized for the
intended use population and imaging equipment.
(2) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed. Software
documentation must include a detailed technical description of all image analysis algorithms,
including the model inputs and outputs, each major component or block, and any model
limitations.
(3) Labeling must include:
(i) A detailed description of the clinical environment and context of use, including
information on interpretation of outputs within the intended workflow;
(ii)A detailed description of compatible imaging hardware and imaging protocols;
(iii)A detailed summary of the performance testing for each device output, including: test
methods, dataset characteristics, testing environment, results (with confidence
De Novo Summary (DEN220040) Page 8 of 10intervals), and a summary of sub-analyses on case distributions stratified by relevant
confounders;
(iv)According to the timeframe included in any postmarket surveillance protocol
approved by FDA to satisfy the requirements paragraph (1) of this section, a detailed
summary of the postmarket surveillance data must be provided, including updates to
the labeling to accurately reflect device performance based upon data collected during
the postmarket surveillance experience; and
(v) Limiting statements that indicate:
(A) A description of situations in which the device may fail or may not operate at
its expected performance level (e.g., the impact of poor image quality on
device performance or degraded performance in certain subpopulations), as
applicable, including any limitations in the dataset used to train, tune, and test
the algorithm during device development;
(B) A discussion of what the device detects in the context of diagnosing fibrotic
lung disease; and
(C) A warning that users should use the device in conjunction with other clinical
and diagnostic findings, including information obtained by alternative
methods and clinical evaluation, as appropriate.
BENEFIT/RISK DETERMINATION
To arrive at a subtype classification for ILD, a physician combines information from a variety of
sources (patient history, imaging, pathology, pulmonary function testing, labs) which each
contribute positively or negatively to affect the overall certainty for a given diagnosis. Fibresolve
analyzes CT images based on no human-derived metrics associated with IPF and produces a
binary output: "Suggestive of IPF" or "Inconclusive."
The major risks of this device are derived from incorrect (false positive / false negative) results:
A false positive result could lead to an incorrect diagnosis of IPF, with omission of curative
medication for the true underlying ILD resulting in progression of disease and death; A false
negative may result in missed or delayed diagnosis which is associated with worse outcomes in
IPF, increased chance of unnecessary invasive biopsy in IPF when noninvasive diagnosis was
feasible, or harmful treatment for a mistakenly diagnosed alternate ILD. These risks are partially
mitigated by placing use of the device as part of an MDD or in a referral pathway to an MDD,
and through clear labeling that a positive result is only "Suggestive of IPF" and that a negative
result is "inconclusive" and does not rule out IPF.
The benefits of the device are ease of use, improved accessibility, and improved detection of IPF,
which will need to be interpreted in light of a significant false positive rate by an appropriate
MDD. Uncertainty is introduced into the study results by a substandard comparator arm,
inappropriate statistical methods, and questions regarding how well the data represents the target
population. The level of uncertainty for the probable benefits of the device is high. However,
postmarket data can be employed to further elucidate device performance in the on-label slice
thicknesses and in a transparent demonstration of device binary output performance in the four
SOC radiological UIP categories. These postmarket activities will increase transparency for users
De Novo Summary (DEN220040) Page 9 of 10regarding the performance of the device in US populations according to the SOC imaging
analysis as described by clinical society guidelines.
Patient Perspectives
This submission did not include specific information on patient perspectives for this device;
however, these conclusions were informed by activities (engagement with a Network of Experts
and a Patient Panel Discussion) performed while the file was under review.
Benefit/Risk Conclusion
In conclusion, given the available information above, for the following indication statement:
Fibresolve is a software-only device that receives and analyzes lung computed
tomography (CT) imaging data in order to provide a diagnostic subtype classification in
suspected cases of interstitial lung disease (ILD). The device supplements the standard-
of-care workflow by providing a qualitative, diagnostic classification output of imaging
findings based on machine learning pattern recognition, in order to provide adjunctive
information as part of a referral pathway to an appropriate Multidisciplinary Discussion
(MDD) or as part of an MDD. Specifically, the tool is used to serve as an adjunct in the
diagnosis of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) prior to invasive testing. The results of
Fibresolve are intended to be used only by clinicians qualified in the care of lung disease,
specifically in caring for patients with ILD, in conjunction with the patient's clinical
history, symptoms, and other diagnostic tests, as well as the clinician's professional
judgment.
The input to Fibresolve is a DICOM-compliant lung CT scan. Clinical case eligibility
includes the following criteria:
Age > 22 years old.
Pulmonary symptoms suggestive of possible ILD including IPF.
The probable benefits outweigh the probable risks for the Fibresolve. The device provides
benefits and the risks can be mitigated by the use of general controls and the identified special
controls.
CONCLUSION
The De Novo request for the Fibresolve is granted and the device is classified under the
following:
Product Code: QWO
Device Type: Radiology software for referral of findings related to fibrotic lung disease
Class: II
Regulation: 21 CFR 892.2085
De Novo Summary (DEN220040) Page 10 of 10