DE NOVO CLASSIFICATION REQUEST FOR
Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection
REGULATORY INFORMATION
FDA identifies this generic type of device as:
Ear, nose, and throat image analyzer. An ear, nose, and throat image analyzer is a device that
uses software to analyze patient-specific optical images of the ear, nose, and throat area. The results
are provided for healthcare providers as an aid to detection, diagnosis, or monitoring of ear, nose,
and throat conditions.
NEW REGULATION NUMBER: 21 CFR 874.4775
CLASSIFICATION: Class II
PRODUCT CODE: SHL
BACKGROUND
DEVICE NAME: Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection
SUBMISSION NUMBER: DEN250014
DATE DE NOVO RECEIVED: April 21, 2025
SPONSOR INFORMATION:
Tyto Care Ltd.
Stella Raizelman Perry
14 Beni Gaon Street
Netanya, Israel
INDICATIONS FOR USE
The Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection is indicated as follows:
Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection is an over-the-counter web-based AI-enabled
software analytics device intended to automatically detect the bulging of the eardrum in
Otoscopic video recordings acquired by the compatible electronic otoscope, as identified
in the product labeling, in patients aged 6 months and older. The device is not intended for
diagnosis. A healthcare provider’s advice is required to understand the meaning of the Tyto
Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection result. Healthcare providers should consider the
device result in conjunction with otoscopic recordings and other relevant patient data. The
device is not intended to detect other abnormal otoscopic findings.LIMITATIONS
Limitations on device use are included in the Instructions for Use as Contraindications,
and Warnings/Precautions.
Contraindications
• Not intended for diagnostic purposes.
• Not intended for patients under the age of 6 months.
• Not suitable for use by people who have undergone ear surgical procedures on the
eardrum, middle ear, and/or mastoid. These procedures encompass tympanoplasty, canal
wall up tympanomastoidectomy, canal wall down mastoidectomy, modified radical
mastoidectomy, radical mastoidectomy, and myringotomy with ventilation tube insertion
(ear tubes).
• Not suitable for use by people suspected of having a foreign object in the ear.
Warnings
• The Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection can detect eardrum bulging in
recordings acquired only by the compatible Tyto Otoscope.
• Ears recordings must be collected only according to the guidance provided with the
compatible Tyto Otoscope. Instructions for adequate data collection method are provided
in the Tyto Otoscope instructions for use
• The user of the Tyto Otoscope and Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection must be:
• An adult, aged 18 and older.
• Comfortable using mobile apps.
• The Tyto Otoscope must be used as intended according to its instructions for use. Pay
special attention to recording the environment to meet the requirements defined in the
instruction for use.
• Always discuss the results of the Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection with a
medical professional.
• Never rely on the result of the Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection for diagnosis
and treatment.
• Regardless of the Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection result, if the patient has
signs and symptoms such as ear pain or fever, they should always approach their healthcare
professional for advice.
De Novo Summary (DEN250014) Page 2DEVICE DESCRIPTION
Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection is a web-based AI enabled software analytics device
intended to automatically detect the bulging of the Eardrum in Otoscopic video recordings
acquired by the compatible Tyto Otoscope in pediatrics and adults. The device is intended to
process recordings only from the compatible Tyto Otoscope (Class I medical device, exempt from
premarket notification procedures), manufactured by TytoCare Ltd. The acquisition of the video
otoscopy data (recordings) is carried out by a professional user in a clinical environment or by a
lay user in a non-clinical environment.
Bulging is a medical characteristic of the tympanic membrane that is commonly used for the
diagnosis of Acute Otitis Media, but is also observed in ear trauma, barotrauma, bullous myringitis,
etc. Therefore, the device can provide an aid to diagnosis when used in conjunction with otoscopic
ear examinations and when considering all patient symptoms and medical history.
Device input obtained via Otoscope (Class I medical device exempt from premarket notification):
The Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection system is a processing service and has an
interface with a Telehealth system which is not part of this product. The Tyto Insights for Eardrum
Bulging Detection device is responsible for the data transfer, store and read-only display of device
output (otoscopic video analysis results).
De Novo Summary (DEN250014) Page 3Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection Architecture:
Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection system is composed of the following sub-systems:
I. Application Server (APS) communicates with Algorithm Server (ALS) and implements an
application programming interface (API) for communication with the telehealth server.
II. The ALS sub-system is composed of the artificial intelligence-enabled bulging detection
algorithm, eardrum quality filter and logic wrapper and interface. The ALS receives a video
file as input and returns as output a positive/negative/unable to analyze result.
III. The Web Server provides a graphic indication whether an eardrum bulging is detected in
the recording. It can be utilized both in the patient and clinician side. All the software
subsystems (servers and storage) are hosted in the cloud and communicate via IP network
When the input (.mp4 file) is received, the Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection applies
an artificial intelligence-enabled “Eardrum Quality Filter” that excludes video files with any of the
following: no eardrum detected, duration less than 4 seconds, non-MP4 format, or corrupted files.
The artificial intelligence-enabled Eardrum Quality Filter Algorithm outputs a classification of:
Positive: Eardrum with sufficient quality to determine ear drum position was detected in video
Negative: Eardrum with sufficient quality to determine ear drum position was not detected in video
De Novo Summary (DEN250014) Page 4Next, an artificial intelligence-enabled Bulging Detection Algorithm outputs a classification of:
Positive: Eardrum Bulging was detected in the video
Negative: Eardrum Bulging was not detected in the video
The user (lay user) view includes a warning reminding the user not to rely on the analysis results
for diagnosis or treatment and to consult with a clinician.
The clinician view includes a view the otoscopic video recording, with a mouse-over option that
displays a short video segment (up to 5 seconds) in which the eardrum is visible. The clinician
should consider the results of the Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection in conjunction with
the otoscopic recording and with all other relevant patient data.
De Novo Summary (DEN250014) Page 5Training Dataset
The training dataset consists of 3,102 otoscopic recordings:
• Visible Tympanic Membrane Position - Bulging Positive: 606 recordings
• Visible Tympanic Membrane Position - Bulging Negative: 1,510 recordings
• Tympanic Membrane Position Not Sufficiently Captured: 986 recordings
The training dataset was sourced from the TytoCare RWD (Real-World Data) Database, originating
from individual patients who upload their otoscopic videos during routine telehealth use, as
intended. The training dataset was categorized based on their ground truth annotations by multiple
ENT (Ear Nose Throat) specialists (otolaryngologists):
At Step 1, the recordings were systematically annotated by one ENT specialist into two categories:
“Ear Abnormal Recording” and “Ear Normal Recording.” This initial classification addressed the
challenge posed by the low prevalence of the targeted bulging otoscopy finding in real world data.
At Step 2, all of the data marked “Abnormal” in Step 1 and a part of randomly selected “Normal”
data was transferred to a set to be annotated by 3 ENTs into the following categories: “Bulging
Positive,” “Bulging Negative,” and “Tympanic Membrane Position was not sufficiently Captured.”
The final ground truth is determined by majority vote among the three truthers.
At Step 3, randomly selected recordings from Step 2 were annotated on a frame level by an ENT.
This dataset was used to train both Eardrum Bulging Detection and Quality Filter Algorithms.
De Novo Summary (DEN250014) Page 6PEDIATRIC EXTRAPOLATION
In this De Novo request, existing clinical data were not leveraged to support the use of the device
in a pediatric patient population.
LABELING
The Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection labeling is sufficient and meets labeling
requirements for over-the-counter devices. It contains the indication for use, limitations,
contraindication, device description, maintenance, warnings and precautions, instruction for use,
and summary of clinical validation.
HUMAN FACTORS TESTING
The first human factor study included 15 U.S.-licensed healthcare providers who were tested
remotely in 3 simulated scenarios (Automated Output Aligned with Clinical Findings, Device-
Generated “Unable to Analyze” Output, and Discordant (False-Positive) Automated Output).
Across all simulated-use scenarios, all participants successfully completed the critical task of
independent clinical assessment. Participants consistently reviewed otoscopic video recordings,
patient-reported symptoms, and relevant medical history, and appropriately interpreted the Tyto
Insights output as supportive information only. No participant relied on the automated output as
the sole basis for clinical assessment or determination of next steps.
The second human factor study was conducted in-person on 30 lay users that did not have any
formalized training (15 participants aged 18-50 years and approximately 15 participants aged 50
years and older) to evaluate performance of all critical tasks of otoscopic video capture, upload,
and transfer of recordings via the Tyto Care User App, comprehension of device limitations,
interpretation of displayed result, and avoidance of inappropriate self-diagnosis through selection
of next steps consistent with the intended use of the device. The lay users were able to use the Tyto
Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection device as part of the full operational workflow, without
progression to hazardous situations.
PREDETERMINED CHANGE CONTROL PLAN (PCCP)
Modification Description
Modification #1[M#1]: modifications Re-training of the machine learning model with
related to quantitative measures of additional data to increase the sensitivity or
performance specifications. specificity compared to the most recently validated
and released device while the same type and range
of input signal is used.
De Novo Summary (DEN250014) Page 13Modification #2[M#2]: modifications Modification of data preprocessing methodologies
related to quantitative measures – /data augmentation methodologies/ Architecture
technical performance specifications. and hyper-parameters to improve the performance
or the efficiency of the computational resources
(running time, memory consumption and CPU
utilization).
Modification #3[M#3]: modifications Expanding the algorithm to include new sources of
related to device inputs. the same signal type, new model/version of Tyto
Otoscope that meet the minimum predefined
otoscopic video acquisition and file requirements
for compatibility, including MP4 format or
comparable, resolution ≥640×480, field of view
≥45° diagonal and frame rate ≥10 fps.
* No third-party otoscopes are included within the
scope of this PCCP.
This PCCP was reviewed and authorized by FDA. A testing plan was developed to verify that the
modified Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection device continues to ensure safety and
effectiveness. For instance, algorithm performance will be evaluated relative to the most recently
validated and released version of the device and performance goals will be based on the lower
bounds of the two-sided 95% confidence intervals (LCI).
RISKS TO HEALTH
The table below identifies the risks to health that may be associated with use of the ear, nose, and
throat image analyzer and the measures necessary to mitigate these risks
Identified Risks to Health Mitigation Measures
Incorrect results, whether Clinical performance testing
• False positives, leading to unnecessary Labeling
medical procedures or treatments; or
• False negatives, leading to delayed
patient treatment
Overreliance or misinterpretation of results Labeling
leading to incorrect patient management Human factors testing
Software malfunction leading to inaccurate Clinical performance testing
patient diagnosis and monitoring or failure to Software verification, validation, and hazard
identify the correct condition analysis
De Novo Summary (DEN250014) Page 14SPECIAL CONTROLS
In combination with the general controls of the FD&C Act, the ear, nose, and throat image analyzer
is subject to the following special controls:
(1) Clinical performance testing must demonstrate the accuracy and precision of the device
output to demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of
use in the intended patient population for the stated indications for use.
(2) Human factors/usability testing must demonstrate that the user can correctly use the
device, based solely on reading the directions for use.
(3) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.
(4) Labeling must include:
(i) Hardware compatibility information;
(ii) A warning that the device is not intended to be used independently for diagnosis; and
(iii) A summary of the clinical performance testing conducted with the device, including
the study endpoints and statistical confidence intervals.
BENEFIT-RISK DETERMINATION
The probable benefits of this device are to automatically detect eardrum bulging in Otoscopic
video recordings (which would otherwise be detected visually, relying on clinical experience and
judgment to interpret the tympanic membrane position and characteristics). Bulging is a medical
characteristic of the tympanic membrane that is commonly used for the diagnosis of Acute Otitis
Media, but is also observed in ear trauma, barotrauma, bullous myringitis, etc. Therefore, the
device can provide an aid to diagnosis when used in conjunction with otoscopic ear examinations
and when considering all patient symptoms and medical history.
There is a risk of inappropriate patient management in the setting of inaccurate output from the
device, which can lead to either incorrect, unnecessary, or delayed patient treatment/medication.
However, labeling can mitigate these risks such as by including a warning reminding the lay user
not to rely on the analysis results for diagnosis and treatment and to consult with a clinician, and
to inform the clinician to consider the results of the device software output in conjunction with the
otoscopic recording and with all other relevant patient data (and therefore not to solely rely on the
device for diagnosis).
Based on the totality of the information provided, including the non-clinical testing/validation,
clinical performance, and human factors data, there is sufficient evidence to support concluding
that the probable benefit of the Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection exceeds the probable
risks for its use to automatically detect the bulging of the eardrum in otoscopic video recordings.
PATIENT PERSPECTIVES
This submission did not include specific information on patient perspectives for this device.
BENEFIT/RISK CONCLUSION
De Novo Summary (DEN250014) Page 15In conclusion, given the available information above, for the following indication statement:
Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection is an over-the-counter web-based AI-enabled
software analytics device intended to automatically detect the bulging of the eardrum in Otoscopic
video recordings acquired by the compatible electronic otoscope, as identified in the product
labeling, in patients aged 6 months and older. The device is not intended for diagnosis. A healthcare
provider’s advice is required to understand the meaning of the Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging
Detection result. Healthcare providers should consider the device result in conjunction with
otoscopic recording and other relevant patient data. The device is not intended to detect other
abnormal otoscopic findings.
The probable benefits outweigh the probable risks for the Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging
Detection. The device provides benefits and the risks can be mitigated by the use of general
controls and the identified special controls.
CONCLUSION
The De Novo request for the Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection is granted and the
device is classified as follows:
Product Code: SHL
Device Type: Ear, nose, and throat image analyzer
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 874.4475
Class: Class II
De Novo Summary (DEN250014) Page 16