AIQ Solutions, Inc. July 23rd, 2018
℅ Mr. Mitch Lewandowski
Principal/Consultant
EpiReg LLC
3428 John Muir Drive
MIDDLETON WI 53562
Re: K173444
Trade/Device Name: Quantitative Total Extensible Imaging (QTxI)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Picture archiving and communications system
Regulatory Class: II
Product Code: LLZ
Dated: June 8, 2018
Received: June 12, 2018
Dear Mr. Lewandowski:
We have reviewed your Section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced
above and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the
enclosure) to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the
enactment date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance
with the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Act) that do not require approval of a
premarket approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general
controls provisions of the Act. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual
registration, listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding
and adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties.
We remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR 803); good
manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part 820);
and if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR
1000-1050.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.02.11
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govPage 2 – Mr. Mitch Lewandowski K173444
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR Part
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to http://www.fda.gov/MedicalDevices/Safety/ReportaProblem/default.htm.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice
(https://www.fda.gov/MedicalDevices/DeviceRegulationandGuidance/) and CDRH Learn
(http://www.fda.gov/Training/CDRHLearn). Additionally, you may contact the Division of Industry and
Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See the DICE website
(http://www.fda.gov/DICE) for more information or contact DICE by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone
(1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Digitally signed by Jeffrey J.
Ballyns -S
DN: c=US, o=U.S. Government,
ou=HHS, ou=FDA, ou=People,
0.9.2342.19200300.100.1.1=200
0569725, cn=Jeffrey J. Ballyns -S
Date: 2018.07.23 10:41:24 -04'00'
for
Robert Ochs, Ph.D.
Director
Division of Radiological Health
Office of In Vitro Diagnostics
and Radiological Health
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: January 31, 2017
Indications for Use
See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K173444
Device Name
Quantitative Total Extensible Imaging (QTxI)
Indications for Use (Describe)
Quantitative Total Extensible Imaging (QTxI) is a software tool used to aid in evaluation and information management of
digital medical images by trained medical professionals including, but not limited to, radiologists, oncologists, nuclear
medicine physicians, medical imaging technologists, dosimetrists and physicists. The medical modalities of these medical
images include DICOM CT and PET as supported by ACR/NEMA DICOM 3.0.
QTxI assists in the following indications:
• Receive, store, retrieve, display and process digital medical images.
(cid:129) Create, display and print reports from those images.
(cid:129) Provide medical professionals with the ability to display, register, and fuse medical images.
(cid:129) Identify Regions of Interest (ROIs) and perform ROI contouring allowing quantitative/statistical analysis of full or
partial body scans.
(cid:129) Evaluate quantitative change in ROIs (total or partial body; individual ROI within individual) with 3D interactive
rendering of images with highlighted ROIs.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/14) Page 1 of 1
PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFAIQ Solutions, Inc. – Traditional 510(k) – QTxI
510(k) Summary
510(k) Summary
1. 510(k) Owner:
AIQ Solutions Inc.
2. Address:
8025 Excelsior Drive
Madison, WI 53717
3. Contact Person:
Mitch Lewandowski, M.S./ M.P.H; Principal Consultant
Email: info@epireg.com
Tel: 608 712-8585
Direct: 608 695-9333
4. Date 510(k) Summary Prepared:
05 October 2017
5. Trade Name:
Quantitative Total Extensible Imaging (QTxI) Medical Image and Information
Management System
6. Common Name:
Picture archiving and communication system
7. Classification Name:
21 CFR 892.2050, Picture archiving and communication system (LLZ)
8. Predicate Device(s):
Exini Diagnostics AB; EXINI, K122205
9. Device Description:
Quantitative Total Extensible Imaging (QTxI) is a software tool designed for use in
medical imaging. It is stand-alone software which operates on Windows 7 and
Windows 10. Its intended function and use is to provide medical professionals with
the means to display, register and fuse medical images from multiple modalities
including DICOM PET and CT. Additionally, it identifies Regions of Interest (ROIs)
and performs ROI contouring allowing quantitative/statistical analysis of full or
partial-body scans through registration to template space.
QTxI is designed to support multiple image analysis modules. Each module is
designed for a specific image analysis purpose. Currently QTxI includes only the
Quantitative Total Bone Imaging (QTBI) module, which is designed to identify and
measure hot-spots on PET scans. QTBI aids the efficiency of medical
professionals through automatic quantification of ROIs and changes in those
Page 1 of 6AIQ Solutions, Inc. – Traditional 510(k) – QTxI
510(k) Summary
ROIs, including 3D interactive rendering of the patient skeleton with highlighted
Regions of Interest.
QTxI also functions as a Picture Archive and Communications System (PACS)
intended to receive, store, retrieve, display and process digital medical images, as
well as create, display and print reports from those images. It also provides
platform features for security, workflow and integration.
10. Indications for Use and Intended Use
Quantitative Total Extensible Imaging (QTxI) is a software tool used to aid in
evaluation and information management of digital medical images by trained
medical professionals including, but not limited to, radiologists, oncologists,
nuclear medicine physicians, medical imaging technologists, dosimetrists and
physicists. The medical modalities of these medical images include DICOM CT
and PET as supported by ACR/NEMA DICOM 3.0.
QTxI assists in the following indications:
 Receive, store, retrieve, display and process digital medical images.
 Create, display and print reports from those images.
 Provide medical professionals with the ability to display, register, and fuse
medical images.
 Identify Regions of Interest (ROIs) and perform ROI contouring allowing
quantitative/statistical analysis of full or partial body scans.
 Evaluate quantitative change in ROIs (total or partial body; individual ROI
within individual) with 3D interactive rendering of images with highlighted
ROIs.
11. Technological Characteristics
QTxI has substantially equivalent indications for use, principle of operation, and
technological characteristics as the Exini Diagnostics AB; EXINI, K122205.
The following table summarizes and compares data on the Exini Diagnostics AB;
EXINI, K122205, and supporting predicate device MlMvista Corp. MIM4.1
(Seastar), K071964.
Page 2 of 6AIQ Solutions, Inc. – Traditional 510(k) – QTxI
510(k) Summary
Quantitative Total Exini Diagnostics AB; MlMvista Corp.
Specification / Extensible Imaging (QTxI) EXINI, K122205 MIM4.1 (Seastar), K071964 Comparison to
Characteristic Predicate(s)
Subject Device Predicate Device Supporting Predicate Device
Product Code LLZ LLZ LLZ Nodifference
Regulation
892.2050 892.2050 892.2050 Nodifference
Number
Regulatory
II II II Nodifference
Class
Review Panel Radiology Radiology Radiology No difference
MEQIA, IBIS Explorer and Markup MIM4.0 (K060816); IKOEngelo
Predicate Exini Diagnostics AB;
Software (K111319) (K061006); Centricity PACS N/A
Device EXINI (K122205)
(K043415)
510(k)/ Type K173444, Traditional K122205, Traditional K071964, Traditional No difference
Receive, store, retrieve, display Software tool set for acceptance, transfer, Receive, transmit, store, retrieve,
and process digital medical storage, image display, manipulation and display, print and process digital
Features images, as well as create, quantification of digital medical images. medical images, as well as create, No difference
display and print reports from display and print reports from those
those images images
QTxI does not utilize
as many medical
DICOM CT and PET as Nuclear imaging (NM) and computed CT, MRI, CR, DX, MG, US, modalities as
Medical
supported by tomography (CT) as supported by SPECT, PET and XA as supported predicate, but does
Modalities
ACR/NEMA DICOM 3.0 DICOM 3.0 standard. by ACR/NEMA DICOM 3.0. utilize equivalent
modalities in those
used by both systems.
Microsoft Windows operating system QTxI uses newer
Operating
Window 7 or Windows 10 Windows 2000/XP versions of MicroSoft
System
Windows software
The device uses image processing
techniques for segmentation of skeletal
Generates contours using a
regions, normalization and hotspot
Identifies Regions of Interest deformable registration technique
contouring/ segmentation. This device is All devices perform
(ROI) and performs ROI which registers pre-contoured
semi-automatic in that it requires a centering analyses
contouring allowing patients to target patients.
manual step (hotspot verification step) utilizing a template
Methodology quantitative/statistical analysis Registrations are either between a
where the user reviews and edits the model. QTxI also
of full or partial-body scans serial pair of intra-patient volumes
selection of hotspots that are used as registers regions of the
through registration to template or between a pre-existing atlas of
input for quantitative analysis. The device patient.
space contoured patients and a patient
performs quantitative analysis based on
volume
2D ROI (regions of interests)
measurements in whole body bone scans.
Page 3 of 6AIQ Solutions, Inc. – Traditional 510(k) – QTxI
510(k) Summary
Quantitative Total Exini Diagnostics AB; MlMvista Corp.
Specification / Extensible Imaging (QTxI) EXINI, K122205 MIM4.1 (Seastar), K071964 Comparison to
Characteristic Predicate(s)
Subject Device Predicate Device Supporting Predicate Device
EXINI is intended to be used by trained MIM 4.1 (SEASTAR) software is
healthcare professionals and researchers used by trained medical
Quantitative Total Extensible for acceptance, transfer, storage, image professionals as a tool to aid in
Imaging (QTxI) is a software display, manipulation, quantification and evaluation and information
tool used to aid in evaluation reporting of digital medical images. The management of digital medical
and information management of system is intended to be used with images images. The medical image
digital medical images by acquired using nuclear imaging (NM) and modalities include, but are not
trained medical professionals computed tomography (CT). The software limited to, CT, MRI, CR, DX, MG, All systems are used to
including, but not limited to, provides general US, SPECT, PET and XA as receive, store, retrieve,
radiologists, oncologists, Picture Archiving and Communications supported by ACR/NEMA DICOM display, and process
nuclear medicine physicians, System (PACS) tools and a clinical 3.0. MIM 4.1 medical images and
medical imaging technologists, application for oncology including lesion (SEASTAR) assists in the following DICOM objects.
dosimetrists and physicists. The marking and analysis. indications:
medical modalities of these This is accomplished
medical images include DICOM  Receive, transmit, store, via registration to a
Indications for
CT and PET as supported by retrieve, display, print, and template space and
Use
ACR/NEMA DICOM 3.0. process medical images and subsequent analysis of
DICOM objects. the image data.
QTxI assists in the following  Create, display and print
indications: reports from medical images. The predicate device
 Receive, store, retrieve,  Registration, fusion display, has multiple uses in
display and process digital and review of medical images the therapeutic space,
medical images for diagnosis, treatment, which is not specific to
 Create, display and print evaluation, and treatment any device.
reports from those images planning.
 Provide medical  Evaluation of cardiac left
professionals with the ventricular function and
ability to display, register, perfusion, including left
and fuse medical images ventricular end-diastolic
volume, end-systolic volume,
and ejection fraction.
Page 4 of 6AIQ Solutions, Inc. – Traditional 510(k) – QTxI
510(k) Summary
Quantitative Total Exini Diagnostics AB; MlMvista Corp.
Specification / Extensible Imaging (QTxI) EXINI, K122205 MIM4.1 (Seastar), K071964 Comparison to
Characteristic Predicate(s)
Subject Device Predicate Device Supporting Predicate Device
 Localization and definition of
objects such as tumors and
normal tissues in medical
 Identify Regions of
images.
Interest (ROIs) and
 Creation, transformation, and
perform ROI contouring
modification of contours for
allowing quantitative/
applications including, but not
statistical analysis of full or
limited to, quantitative analysis,
partial body scans
Indications for aiding adaptive therapy,
 Evaluate quantitative
Use transferring contours to
change in ROIs (total or
(continued) radiation therapy treatment
partial body; individual
planning systems, and
ROI within individual) with
archiving contours for patient
3D interactive rendering of
follow-up and management
images with highlighted
 Quantitative and statistical
ROIs.
analysis of PET/SPECT brain
scans by comparing to other
registered PET/SPECT brain
scans.
Page 5 of 6AIQ Solutions, Inc. – Traditional 510(k) – QTxI
510(k) Summary
12. Performance Data (Nonclinical)
QTxI is a software tool. Non-clinical performance bench tests and simulated
clinical performance tests have been performed on the Quantitative Total
Extensible Imaging (QTxI) in order to verify the device characteristics. Testing
conducted to demonstrate substantial equivalence included:
 Software verification testing that demonstrates the device meets product
performance and functional specifications.
 Software verification testing demonstrating that DICOM information
collected with medical imaging systems and transmitted through manual
or virtual input are captured, transmitted, and stored properly to maintain
data integrity (e.g., no loss of data).
13. Conclusion
QTxI met all predetermined acceptance criteria of design verification and
validation as specified by applicable standards, and test protocols.
The Quantitative Total Extensible Imaging (QTxI) software tool is substantially
equivalent with respect to product performance, indications for use, intended use,
scientific principles, technological characteristics, and materials, as the predicate
device, Exini Diagnostics AB; EXINI, K122205.
Page 6 of 6