June 29, 2018
NuVasive, Incorporated
Olga Lewis
Regulatory Affairs Senior Manager
7475 Lusk Blvd.
San Diego, California 92121
Re: K180038
Trade/Device Name: NuVasive® Pulse™ System
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 882.4560
Regulation Name: Stereotaxic Instrument
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: OLO, PDQ, ETN, GWF, HAW, IKN, OWB, LLZ, JAA
Dated: May 31, 2018
Received: June 1, 2018
Dear Olga Lewis:
We have reviewed your Section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced
above and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the
enclosure) to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the
enactment date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance
with the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Act) that do not require approval of a
premarket approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general
controls provisions of the Act. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual
registration, listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding
and adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties.
We remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR 803); good
manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part 820);
and if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR
1000-1050.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.02.11
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govPage 2 - Olga Lewis K180038
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR Part
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to http://www.fda.gov/MedicalDevices/Safety/ReportaProblem/default.htm.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice
(https://www.fda.gov/MedicalDevices/DeviceRegulationandGuidance/) and CDRH Learn
(http://www.fda.gov/Training/CDRHLearn). Additionally, you may contact the Division of Industry and
Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See the DICE website
(http://www.fda.gov/DICE) for more information or contact DICE by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone
(1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Mark N. Melkerson -S
Mark N. Melkerson
Director
Division of Orthopedic Devices
Office of Device Evaluation
Center for Devices and
Radiological Health
Enclosure(cid:44)(cid:18)(cid:25)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:20)(cid:25)(cid:1)(cid:14)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:66)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:1)(cid:18)(cid:1)(cid:80)(cid:71)(cid:1)(cid:19)
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 06/30/2020
Indications for Use
See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K180038
Device Name
NuVasive®(cid:51)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:72)™(cid:54)(cid:92)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:80)
Indications for Use (Describe)
The Pulse System is a medical device comprised of Pulse NVM5, Pulse LessRay, and Pulse Navigation.
The Pulse NVM5 is intended for intraoperative neurophysiologic monitoring during spinal surgery, neck dissections,
thoracic surgeries, and upper and lower extremities. The device provides information directly to the surgeon, to help
assess a patient’s neurophysiologic status. The Pulse NVM5 provides this information by electrically stimulating nerves
via electrodes located on surgical accessories and monitoring electromyography (EMG), motor evoked potential (MEP) or
somatosensory evoked potential (SSEP) responses of nerves. The System also integrates Bendini® software used to
locate spinal implant instrumentation for the placement of spinal rods.
(cid:129)XLIF (Detection) – The XLIF (Detection) function allows the surgeon to locate and evaluate spinal nerves, and is used
as a nerve avoidance tool.
(cid:129)Basic & Dynamic Screw Test – The Screw Test functions allow the surgeon to locate and evaluate spinal nerves by
providing proximity information before, during or after bone preparation and placement of bone screws.
(cid:129)Free Run EMG – The Free Run EMG function identifies spontaneous EMG activity of spinal nerves by continually
displaying a live stream waveform of any mechanically induced myotome contractions.
(cid:129)Twitch Test (Train of Four) – The Twitch Test Function allows the surgeon to assess moderate degrees of
neuromuscular block in effect by evaluating muscle contraction following a train of four stimulation pulses.
(cid:129)MEP – Transcranial or lumbar (i.e., conus in region of L1-L2) stimulation techniques for motor evoked potentials are
used to assess for acute dysfunction in axonal conduction of the corticospinal tract and peripheral nerves. The MEP
function provides an adjunctive method to allow the surgeon to monitor spinal cord and motor pathway integrity during
procedures with a risk of surgically induced motor injury.
(cid:129)SSEP – The SSEP function allows the surgeon to assess sensory spinal cord function in surgical procedures during
which the spinal cord is at risk.
(cid:129)Remote Access - The remote monitoring and local wireless control provides real-time capabilities to the Pulse
System.
(cid:129)Bendini – The Bendini Spinal Rod Bending function is used to locate spinal implant system instrumentation (screws,
hooks) to determine their relative location to one another to generate bend instructions to shape a spinal rod. A surgeon is
able to use those instructions and bend a rod using the Bendini Bender, a mechanical rod bender.
The Pulse LessRay is intended for use in any application where a fluoroscope is incorporated to aid in diagnosis and
treatment of disease.
Pulse Navigation is intended as an intraoperative image-guided localization system in either open or minimally-invasive
spinal surgical procedures. Instruments and implants tracked by a passive marker sensor system are virtually displayed on
a patient's 2D or 3D radiographic image data. The system enables computer-assisted navigation for spinal surgical
procedures in which the use of stereotactic surgery may be appropriate and where a reference to a rigid anatomical
structure can be identified relative to the acquired image of the anatomy.
This may include the following spinal implant procedures:
oPedicle Screw Placement (2D Navigation in Sacral and Lumbar Spine and 3D Navigation in Sacral and Thoracolumbar
Spine)
oInterbody Device Placement (2D and 3D Navigation in Lumbar Spine via Lateral Approach)
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
FORM FDA 3881 (7/17) Page 1 of 2
PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF(cid:44)(cid:18)(cid:25)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:20)(cid:25)(cid:1)(cid:14)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:66)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:1)(cid:80)(cid:71)(cid:1)(cid:19)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (7/17) Page 2 of 2
(cid:44)(cid:18)(cid:25)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:20)(cid:25)Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
NuVasive® Pulse™ System
510(k) Summary K180038
In accordance with Title 21 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 807, and in particular 21 CFR
§807.92, the following summary of information is provided:
A. Submitted by:
Olga Lewis
Senior Manager, Regulatory Affairs
NuVasive, Incorporated
7475 Lusk Blvd.
San Diego, California 92121
Telephone: (858) 909-1800
Date Prepared: June 29, 2018
B. Device Name
Proprietary Name: NuVasive® Pulse™ System
Common or Usual Name: Neurological Surgical Monitor;
Image-intensified fluoroscopic x-ray system
Stereotaxic instrument
Classification Name: Stereotaxic Instrument
Device Class: Class II
Classification: 21 CFR §882.4560
Product Code: OLO, PDQ, ETN, GWF, HAW, IKN, OWB, LLZ, JAA
C. Predicate Devices
The subject NuVasive Pulse System is substantially equivalent to the primary predicate
NuVasive Next Generation NVM5 System (K162313). It is also substantially equivalent to the
additional predicate devices LessRay System (K173314), StealthStation S8 Spine Software
V1.0.0 (K170011), and NuVasive Navigation Instruments (K172623).
D. Device Description
The Pulse System is a medical device consisting of Pulse NVM5, Pulse LessRay, and Pulse
Navigation. The Pulse System hardware includes a Patient Module (PM) and computer, as well
as accompanying accessory components.
The Pulse NVM5 is a medical device that is intended for intraoperative neurological monitoring
and status assessment during spinal surgery. The device provides information directly to the
surgeon, to help assess a patient’s neurological status. The Pulse NVM5 provides this
information by electrically stimulating nerves via electrodes located on surgical accessories and
monitoring electromyography (EMG), motor evoked potential (MEP) or somatosensory evoked
potential (SSEP) responses of the muscle groups innervated by the nerves. Moreover, a Twitch
Test (“Train of Four”) function is utilized to test the ability of the nerve to respond, or contract,
following four stimulation pulses to determine the presence of neuromuscular block.
Additionally, the Pulse NVM5 System includes a software function that measures spinal
parameters and acquires the location of spinal implants (screws, hooks) to assist the surgeon in
K180038 - Page 1 of 12Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
NuVasive® Pulse™ System
bending spinal rods (Bendini). Lastly, the Pulse NVM5 provides Remote Access in two
pathways, Local Wireless Control and Remote Monitoring.
LessRay is a software application which can be interfaced to a fluoroscope with a video cable.
The images produced by the fluoroscope are transmitted to a frame grabber in the computer
running LessRay where the images are enhanced and then displayed. When used in connection
with the low dose and/or pulse setting on the fluoroscope, the user can improve the quality
(clarity, contrast, noise level, and usabilityi) of a noisy (low‐quality) image. Using this system,
much of the graininess of low radiation dose images can be eliminated. This allows for greater
utility of low dose imaging.ii LessRay provides the additional feature of being able to interface
LessRay with a tracking system in order to aid the C-arm technician in positioning the
fluoroscope between the various views of the patient necessary for the intervention. LessRay
with Tracking ensures that the fluoroscope is centered over the correct anatomy prior to taking
any additional x-ray images.
LessRay System has additional capability of instrument tracking to aid the user in positioning
an instrument using prior baseline x-rays. A tracker is attached to the instrument and as the
instrument moves, the tracking system connected to LessRay tracks the location of the
instrument. LessRay System uses this information to aid the user in positioning the instrument.
Pulse Navigation is a stereotactic surgical application intended as an aid for precisely locating
anatomical structures in either open or percutaneous procedures. It is intended for
intraoperative image-guided localization which allows for surgical instruments to be tracked in
three dimensional space. The device provides real-time information directly to the surgeon,
enabling the surgeon to evaluate the instrument depth and trajectory for computer-assisted
navigation during spine surgery. Instruments are tracked in three dimensional space with an
Infrared (IR) Camera, being virtually displayed and superimposed on registered radiographic
images. Radiographic images can be either 2D fluoroscopic images (C-arm) or 3D
intraoperative scan (CT or Cone Beam CT).
E. Indications for Use
The Pulse System is a medical device comprised of Pulse NVM5, Pulse LessRay, and Pulse
Navigation.
The Pulse NVM5 is intended for intraoperative neurophysiologic monitoring during spinal
surgery, neck dissections, thoracic surgeries, and upper and lower extremities. The device
provides information directly to the surgeon, to help assess a patient’s neurophysiologic
status. The Pulse NVM5 provides this information by electrically stimulating nerves via
electrodes located on surgical accessories and monitoring electromyography (EMG), motor
evoked potential (MEP) or somatosensory evoked potential (SSEP) responses of nerves. The
System also integrates Bendini® software used to locate spinal implant instrumentation for the
placement of spinal rods.
 XLIF (Detection) – The XLIF (Detection) function allows the surgeon to locate and
evaluate spinal nerves, and is used as a nerve avoidance tool.
 Basic & Dynamic Screw Test – The Screw Test functions allow the surgeon to locate and
evaluate spinal nerves by providing proximity information before, during or after bone
preparation and placement of bone screws.
K180038 - Page 2 of 12Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
NuVasive® Pulse™ System
 Free Run EMG – The Free Run EMG function identifies spontaneous EMG activity of
spinal nerves by continually displaying a live stream waveform of any mechanically
induced myotome contractions.
 Twitch Test (Train of Four) – The Twitch Test Function allows the surgeon to assess
moderate degrees of neuromuscular block in effect by evaluating muscle contraction
following a train of four stimulation pulses.
 MEP – Transcranial or lumbar (i.e., conus in region of L1-L2) stimulation techniques for
motor evoked potentials are used to assess for acute dysfunction in axonal conduction of
the corticospinal tract and peripheral nerves. The MEP function provides an adjunctive
method to allow the surgeon to monitor spinal cord and motor pathway integrity during
procedures with a risk of surgically induced motor injury.
 SSEP – The SSEP function allows the surgeon to assess sensory spinal cord function in
surgical procedures during which the spinal cord is at risk.
 Remote Access - The remote monitoring and local wireless control provides real-time
capabilities to the Pulse System.
 Bendini – The Bendini Spinal Rod Bending function is used to locate spinal implant
system instrumentation (screws, hooks) to determine their relative location to one another
to generate bend instructions to shape a spinal rod. A surgeon is able to use those
instructions and bend a rod using the Bendini Bender, a mechanical rod bender.
The Pulse LessRay is intended for use in any application where a fluoroscope is incorporated to
aid in diagnosis and treatment of disease.
Pulse Navigation is intended as an intraoperative image-guided localization system in either
open or minimally-invasive spinal surgical procedures. Instruments and implants tracked by a
passive marker sensor system are virtually displayed on a patient's 2D or 3D radiographic
image data. The system enables computer-assisted navigation for spinal surgical procedures in
which the use of stereotactic surgery may be appropriate and where a reference to a rigid
anatomical structure can be identified relative to the acquired image of the anatomy.
This may include the following spinal implant procedures:
o Pedicle Screw Placement (2D Navigation in Sacral and Lumbar Spine and 3D
Navigation in Sacral and Thoracolumbar Spine)
o Interbody Device Placement (2D and 3D Navigation in Lumbar Spine via Lateral
Approach)
F. Technological Characteristics
As was established in this submission, the subject Pulse System is substantially equivalent to
other predicate devices cleared by the FDA for commercial distribution in the United States.
The subject device was shown to be substantially equivalent and have equivalent technological
characteristics to its predicate device through comparison in areas including design, intended
use, material composition, and functions.
K180038 - Page 3 of 12Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
NuVasive® Pulse™ System
Table 1 – Comparison of Technical Characteristics
Predicate Device Predicate Device Predicate Device Subject Device
Specification/
NuVasive Next Generation NVM5 System LessRay System (K173314) StealthStation S8 Spine Software v1.0.0
Property Pulse System
(K162313) (Medtronic– K170011)
The Next Generation NVM5® System is a medical device LessRaySystem is intended for use in any application The StealthStation System is intended as an aid for precisely The Pulse System is a medical device comprised of Pulse NVM5,
that is intended for intraoperative neurophysiologic where a fluoroscope is incorporated to aid in diagnosis locating anatomical structures in either open or percutaneous Pulse LessRay, and Pulse Navigation.
monitoring during spinal surgery, neck dissections, and treatment of disease. procedures.
The Pulse NVM5 is a medical device that is intended for
thoracic surgeries, and upper and lower extremities. The The StealthStation® System, with StealthStation Spine
intraoperative neurophysiologic monitoring during spinal surgery,
device provides information directly to the surgeon, to Software, is intended as an aid for precisely locating
neck dissections, thoracic surgeries, and upper and lower
help assess a patient’s neurophysiologic status. NVM5 anatomical structures in either open or percutaneous
extremities. The device provides information directly to the
provides this information by electrically stimulating neurosurgical and orthopedic procedures. Their use is
surgeon, to help assess a patient’s neurophysiologic status. Pulse
nerves via electrodes located on surgical accessories and indicated for any medical condition in which the use of
NVM5 provides this information by electrically stimulating nerves
monitoring electromyography (EMG), transcranial or stereotactic surgery may be appropriate, and where reference
via electrodes located on surgical accessories and monitoring
lumbar motor evoked potential (MEP) or somatosensory to a rigid anatomical structure, such as the spine or pelvis, can
electromyography (EMG), transcranial or lumbar motor evoked
evoked potential (SSEP) responses of nerves. The be identified relative to images of the anatomy.
System also integrates Bendini™ software used to locate potential (MEP) or somatosensory evoked potential (SSEP)
responses of nerves. The System also integrates Bendini™ software
spinal implant instrumentation for the placement of This can include the following spinal implant procedures,
used to locate spinal implant instrumentation for the placement of
spinal rods. such as:
spinal rods.
 Pedicle Screw Placement
 XLIF (Detection) – The XLIF (Detection) function allows the
 XLIF (Detection) – The XLIF (Detection) function  Iliosacral Screw Placement
surgeon to locate and evaluate spinal nerves, and is used as a
allows the surgeon to locate and evaluate spinal
 Interbody Device Placement nerve avoidance tool.
nerves, and is used as a nerve avoidance tool.
 Basic & Dynamic Screw Test – The Screw Test functions allow
 Basic & Dynamic Screw Test – The Screw Test
the surgeon to locate and evaluate spinal nerves by providing
functions allow the surgeon to locate and evaluate
proximity information before, during or after bone preparation
Intended Use / spinal nerves by providing proximity information
and placement of bone screws.
Indications for Use before, during or after bone preparation and
placement of bone screws.  Free Run EMG – The Free Run EMG function identifies
spontaneous EMG activity of spinal nerves by continually
 Free Run EMG – The Free Run EMG function
displaying a live stream waveform of any mechanically induced
identifies spontaneous EMG activity of spinal nerves
myotome contractions.
by continually displaying a live stream waveform of
any mechanically induced myotome contractions.  Twitch Test (Train of Four) – The Twitch Test Function allows
the surgeon to assess moderate degrees of neuromuscular block
 Twitch Test (Train of Four) – The Twitch Test
in effect by evaluating muscle contraction following a train of
Function allows the surgeon to assess moderate
four stimulation pulses.
degrees of neuromuscular block in effect by
evaluating muscle contraction following a train of  MEP – Transcranial or lumbar (i.e., conus in region of L1-L2)
four stimulation pulses. stimulation techniques for motor evoked potentials are used to
assess for acute dysfunction in axonal conduction of the
 MEP – Transcranial or lumbar (i.e., conus in region
corticospinal tract and peripheral nerves. The MEP function
of L1-L2) stimulation techniques for motor evoked
provides an adjunctive method to allow the surgeon to monitor
potentials are used to assess for acute dysfunction in
spinal cord and motor pathway integrity during procedures with
axonal conduction of the corticospinal tract and
a risk of surgically induced motor injury.
peripheral nerves. The MEP function provides an
adjunctive method to allow the surgeon to monitor
 SSEP – The SSEP function allows the surgeon to assess sensory
spinal cord and motor pathway integrity during
spinal cord function in surgical procedures during which the
procedures with a risk of surgically induced motor
spinal cord is at risk.
injury.
K180038 - Page 4 of 12Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
NuVasive® Pulse™ System
Predicate Device Predicate Device Predicate Device Subject Device
Specification/
NuVasive Next Generation NVM5 System LessRay System (K173314) StealthStation S8 Spine Software v1.0.0
Property Pulse System
(K162313) (Medtronic– K170011)
 SSEP – The SSEP function allows the surgeon to  Remote Access - The remote monitoring and local wireless
assess sensory spinal cord function in surgical
control provides real-time capabilities to the Pulse System
procedures during which the spinal cord is at risk.
 Remote Access - The remote monitoring and local  Bendini – The Bendini Spinal Rod Bending function is used to
wireless control provides real-time capabilities to the locate spinal implant system instrumentation (screws, hooks) to
NG NVM5 System for additional physicians. determine their relative location to one another to generate
 Bendini – The Bendini Spinal Rod Bending function bend instructions to shape a spinal rod. A surgeon is able to use
is used to locate spinal implant system those instructions and bend a rod using the Bendini Bender, a
instrumentation (screws, hooks) to determine their mechanical rod bender
relative location to one another to generate bend
instructions to shape a spinal rod. A surgeon is able The Pulse LessRay is intended for use in any application where a
Intended Use /
to use those instructions and bend a rod using the fluoroscope is incorporated to aid in diagnosis and treatment of
Indications for Use
Bendini Bender, a mechanical rod bender. disease.
(Continued)
Pulse Navigation is intended as an intraoperative image-guided
localization system in either open or minimally-invasive spinal
surgical procedures. Instruments and implants tracked by a passive
marker sensor system are virtually displayed on a patient's 2D or
3D radiographic image data. The system enables computer-assisted
navigation for spinal surgical procedures in which the use of
stereotactic surgery may be appropriate and where a reference to a
rigid anatomical structure can be identified relative to the acquired
image of the anatomy. This may include the following spinal
implant procedures:
o Pedicle Screw Placement (2D Navigation in Sacral and
Lumbar Spine and 3D Navigation in Sacral and
Thoracolumbar Spine)
o Interbody Device Placement (2D and 3D Navigation in
Lumbar Spine via Lateral Approach)
II II II II
Device Class
OWB, LLZ, JAA OLO, PDQ, ETN, GWF, HAW, IKN, OWB, LLZ,
Product Code PDQ, ETN, GWF, HAW, IKN, OLO, OLO
JAA
Regulation Number §874.1820, §882.1870, §882.4560, §882.4560, §874.1820, §882.1870, §890.1375,
§892.1650 §882.4560
(21CFR) §890.1375 §892.1650,
Surgical nerve stimulator/locator; Evoked response
Surgical nerve stimulator/locator; Evoked electrical stimulator;
Device
response electrical stimulator; Neurological stereotaxic instrument;
Classification Image-intensified fluoroscopic x-ray system Stereotaxic Instrument
Neurological stereotaxic instrument; Electromyography (EMG) monitor/stimulator
Name
Electromyography (EMG) monitor/stimulator Image-intensified fluoroscopic x-ray system;
Stereotaxic Instrument
K180038 - Page 5 of 12Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
NuVasive® Pulse™ System
Predicate Device Predicate Device Predicate Device Subject Device
Specification/
NuVasive Next Generation NVM5 System LessRay System (K173314) StealthStation S8 Spine Software v1.0.0
Property Pulse System
(K162313) (Medtronic– K170011)
 XLIF Detection  Software based device used to provide StealthStation Spine Software functionality is  XLIF Detection
 Basic & Dynamic Screw Test computer display systems interfaced to described in terms of its feature sets which are  Basic & Dynamic Screw Test
 Free Run EMG fluoroscope through a video cable. The categorized as imaging modalities, registration,  Free Run EMG
 Twitch Test (Train of Four) images produced by the fluoroscope are planning, interfaces with medical devices, and  Twitch Test (Train of Four)
 MEP transmitted through a cable to a frame views. Feature sets include functionality that  MEP
capture board in the computer where the contributes to clinical decision making and are
 SSEP  SSEP
images are enhanced and then displayed necessary to achieve system performance.
 Remote Access  Remote Access
on the monitor.
 Bendini  Bendini
 NuvaMap O.R.  Enhanced images are displayed on a  NuvaMap O.R.
 NuvaLine spinal parameter assessment computer monitor at the same time that  NuvaLine spinal parameter assessment tools -
tools - Optional the corresponding original image is Optional
displayed on the fluoroscope monitor(s).  LessRay Image Enhancement
 LessRay C-arm tracking
 Uses software to control the frame
Functionalities  LessRay Instrument Tracking
capture, intermediate image
 Navigation: imaging modalities, registration,
manipulation, and subsequent image
interfaces with medical devices, and views.
display.
 The delay between frame acquisition
and frame display is less than the time
between frames, i.e. 33 msec.
 Serves only as an image display which
is in addition to the fluoroscope’s
standard image display device. Device
is passive, in that the operation depends
only on the video output of the
fluoroscope, and it does not transmit any
signals or images to the fluoroscope.
K180038 - Page 6 of 12Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
NuVasive® Pulse™ System
Predicate Device Predicate Device Predicate Device Subject Device
Specification/
NuVasive Next Generation NVM5 System LessRay System (K173314) StealthStation S8 Spine Software v1.0.0
Property Pulse System
(K162313) (Medtronic– K170011)
 XLIF Detection
 Basic & Dynamic Screw Test
 XLIF Detection  Free Run EMG
 Basic & Dynamic Screw Test  Twitch Test (Train of Four)
 Image quality improvement using
 Free Run EMG  MEP
averaging algorithm
 Twitch Test (Train of Four)  SSEP
Algorithms  Contrast and brightness enhancement Unknown
 MEP  Bendini – Rod bending and spinal parameter
with simultaneous reduction of random
 SSEP assessment
noise
 Bendini – Rod bending and spinal  Image quality improvement using averaging
parameter assessment algorithm
 Contrast and brightness enhancement with
simultaneous reduction of random noise
Total Available
32 32
Channels
Headbox/ Patient
Digital Preamplifier with A/D Converter Unknown Digital Preamplifier with A/D Converter
Module
IEC 60601-1
Yes Yes Yes Yes
Compliant
NuVasive supplied computer with separate
NuVasive supplied computer with separate touch
User Interface touch screen and/or keyboard/mouse Mobile
screen and/or keyboard/mouse Mobile device
device
User Comments Free form text entry saved with time marks Free form text entry saved with time marks
Video Inputs Yes Yes
Network
Yes Yes
Compatible
Embedded Help Yes Yes
Artifact Rejection User Defined and automatic User Defined and automatic
Remote Access includes Remote Reader
Remote Access includes Remote Reader Monitoring
Remote Access Monitoring Client and Local Wireless
Client and Local Wireless Control
Control
Needle Electrodes Various Various
Surface Electrodes Dual Surface Ag-AgCl Film and Hydrogel Dual Surface Ag-AgCl Film and Hydrogel
EMG Endotracheal Yes with integrated electrodes for Yes with integrated electrodes for intraoperative
tube intraoperative monitoring monitoring
Electrode Leads Various Various
K180038 - Page 7 of 12Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
NuVasive® Pulse™ System
Predicate Device Predicate Device Predicate Device Subject Device
Specification/
NuVasive Next Generation NVM5 System LessRay System (K173314) StealthStation S8 Spine Software v1.0.0
Property Pulse System
(K162313) (Medtronic– K170011)
Stimulating Probes
Various Various
 XLIF (Detection)  XLIF (Detection)
 Basic & Dynamic Screw Test  Basic & Dynamic Screw Test
EMG Modalities  Free Run EMG  Free Run EMG
 Twitch Test (Train of Four)  Twitch Test (Train of Four)
Types of Modes Automatic Stimulation (red/yellow/green) Automatic Stimulation (red/yellow/green)
Threshold Values
for Yes Yes
Red/Yellow/Green
Audio feedback Yes Yes
Interpretation for Green = Nerve in close proximity Green = Nerve in close proximity
alerts Yellow = Nerve in closer proximity Yellow = Nerve in closer proximity
Red = Nerve in very close proximity Red = Nerve in very close proximity
Continuous free running and stimulated
EMG Monitoring Continuous free running and stimulated (triggered)
(triggered)
Recording
10 10
Channels
Audible EMG Yes Yes
Automatic Muting
Yes Yes
During Artifact
Train of Four
Yes Yes
Testing
 Alert (red/green) – transcranial MEP
only
MEP Types of  Alert (red/green) – transcranial MEP only
 Threshold (red/yellow/green)
Modes  Threshold (red/yellow/green) Stimulation –
Stimulation – transcranial and lumbar
transcranial and lumbar MEP
MEP
Recording
10 10
Channels
K180038 - Page 8 of 12Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
NuVasive® Pulse™ System
Predicate Device Predicate Device Predicate Device Subject Device
Specification/
NuVasive Next Generation NVM5 System LessRay System (K173314) StealthStation S8 Spine Software v1.0.0
Property Pulse System
(K162313) (Medtronic– K170011)
Audible
Yes Yes
MEP/EMG
Automatic Muting
Yes Yes
During Artifact
Manual Stimulation (SSEP Standard and
Manual Stimulation (SSEP Standard and “SSEP
SSEP Types of “SSEP Alert” with automatic color
Alert” with automatic color background alerts and
Modes background alerts and anatomical
anatomical representation)
representation)
Yes
Threshold Values Yes
(Green/Yellow only for simplified SSEP
for (Green/Yellow only for simplified SSEP Harness and
Harness and Red/Yellow/Green for Standard
Red/Yellow/Green Red/Yellow/Green for Standard SSEP Harness)
SSEP Harness)
Audio feedback Yes Yes
Recording
8 8
Channels
K180038 - Page 9 of 12Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
NuVasive® Pulse™ System
Predicate Device Predicate Device Predicate Device Subject Device
Specification/
NuVasive Next Generation NVM5 System LessRay System (K173314) StealthStation S8 Spine Software v1.0.0
Property Pulse System
(K162313) (Medtronic– K170011)
 When tracking is enabled, will  When tracking is enabled, will automatically choose
automatically choose the Baseline when the the Baseline when the fluoroscope is near the
fluoroscope is near the location and location and orientation that the Baseline was
orientation that the Baseline was initially initially taken.
taken.
 When tracking is enabled, requires hardware
 When tracking is enabled, requires components in order to mount the off-the-shelf
hardware components in order to mount the tracking hardware to the C-arm and to the operating
off-the-shelf tracking hardware to the C- table.
arm and to the operating table.
C-arm Tracking
 When tracking is enabled, requires the use of an off-
 When tracking is enabled, requires the use the-shelf tracking system in order to track the 6 DOF
of an off-the-shelf tracking system in order location of the C-arm relative to the operating table.
to track the 6 DOF location of the C-arm When tracking is enabled, visual cues are provided
relative to the operating table. When which help guide the user in positioning the C-arm
tracking is enabled, visual cues are back to where a prior Baseline was taken.
provided which help guide the user in
positioning the C-arm back to where a prior
Baseline was taken.
Tracking Options Optical Optical
NuVasive LessRay System has additional Pulse LessRay has additional capability of instrument
Instrument capability of instrument tracking to aid the tracking to aid the user in positioning an instrument
Tracking user in positioning an instrument using prior using prior baseline x-rays.
baseline x-rays.
Imaging Modalities X-Ray Based Imaging X-Ray Based Imaging
PointMerge Registration
SurfaceMerge Registration
Registration Automatic 2D Image Registration
FluoroMerge Registration
Features Automatic 3D Image Registration
Automatic 2D Image Registration
Automatic 3D Image Registration
Plan Entry and Target Selection
Planning Features 3D Model Building n/a
Deformity Planning
K180038 - Page 10 of 12Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
NuVasive® Pulse™ System
Predicate Device Predicate Device Predicate Device Subject Device
Specification/
NuVasive Next Generation NVM5 System LessRay System (K173314) StealthStation S8 Spine Software v1.0.0
Property Pulse System
(K162313) (Medtronic– K170011)
O-arm Imaging System
O-arm Imaging System
Medical Device Ziehm Vision FD Vario 3D C-Arm
Ziehm Vision FD Vario 3D C-Arm
Interfaces ISO-C 3D C-Arm
Mobius Airo
Orbic 3D C-Arm
Look Sideways
3D
Anatomic Orthogonal
3D
Trajectory 1 and 2
Anatomic Orthogonal
Trajectory Guidance
View (Display Trajectory 1 and 2
Look Ahead
Features) Probe’s Eye
Probe’s Eye
AP and Lateral
AP and Lateral
Synthetic AP and Lateral
Synthetic AP and Lateral
Maximum Intensity Projection
Video Input
Software Interface Basic gray and black style with 4 main tasks and Basic grey and black style with tab interface to access
(GUI) tab interface to access tools. Controls on the right. tools and controls.
Network Connectivity Network Connectivity
Scanner Interface
CD, DVD, USB CD, DVD, USB
Technology (to
DICOM Import DICOM Import
imaging devices)
DICOM Export
Localization Optical
Optical
Technology
K180038 - Page 11 of 12Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
NuVasive® Pulse™ System
G. Performance Data
Nonclinical testing was performed to demonstrate that the subject Pulse System is
substantially equivalent to other predicate devices and to verify that the Pulse System meets
design specifications and performance characteristics, based upon the intended use. The
Pulse System was subjected to the following verification and validation testing according to
the software requirements specifications defined for the system.
 Tracking accuracy verification per ASTM F2554-10
 Accessories attachment verification
 2D navigation distortion and calibration verification
 3D navigation segmentation and tracking error verification
 Navigation software validation
 Cadaver validation for 2D and 3D navigation for pedicle screw and interbody
device placement
 System integration testing
The results of these studies showed that the subject Pulse System meets software
requirements defined for the system and satisfies same acceptance criteria as the
performance of the predicate device. Therefore, subject Pulse System was found to be
substantially equivalent.
H. Conclusions
Based on the indications for use, technological characteristics, performance testing, and
comparison to predicate devices, the subject Pulse System has been shown to be
substantially equivalent to legally marketed predicate devices.
i As evaluated by a human observer in a side by side visual comparison of 30 image pairs with and without LessRay
processing.
ii In clinical practice, the amount of image quality improvement achieved when a Pulsed and/or Low Dose image is
processed with LessRay is dependent on the clinical task, patient size, anatomical location, and clinical practice. The
dose should be set at a level to which the physician is able to achieve the adequate image quality needed for the
particular clinical task. A consultation with a radiologist and a physicist may aid in determining the appropriate dose
settings.
K180038 - Page 12 of 12