TOMTEC Imaging Systems GmbH August 14, 2020
℅ Mr. Marc Bergenthal
Manager Regulatory Affairs
Edisonstrasse 6
Unterschleissheim, Bavaria 85716
GERMANY
Re: K201632
Trade/Device Name: TOMTEC-ARENA
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Picture archiving and communications system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: LLZ
Dated: June 12, 2020
Received: June 16, 2020
Dear Mr. Bergenthal:
We have reviewed your Section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced
above and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the
enclosure) to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the
enactment date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance
with the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Act) that do not require approval of a
premarket approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general
controls provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that
some cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
located at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR 803) for
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.04.17
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK201632 – Mr. Marc Bergenthal Page 2
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR 4, Subpart A) for
combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections 531-
542 of the Act); 21 CFR 1000-1050.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR Part
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
For
Thalia T. Mills, Ph.D.
Director
Division of Radiological Health
OHT7: Office of In Vitro Diagnostics
and Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
Enclosure510(k) Summary
TOMTEC-ARENA (TTA2.40)
510(K) SUMMARY K201632
This 510(k) summary is provided as part of the Premarket Notification in compliance with
21CFR, Part 807, Subpart E, Section 807.92.
1) SUBMITTER’S NAME, ADDRESS, TELEPHONE NUMBER, CONTACT PERSON
Primary Contact: Marc Bergenthal
Email: marc.bergenthal@tomtec.de
Tel: (+49) 89 32175 555
Fax: (+49) 89 32175 750
Sponsor: TOMTEC Imaging Systems GmbH
Edisonstrasse 6
85716 Unterschleissheim
Germany
Date prepared: June 12, 2020
2) NAME OF THE DEVICE, INCLUDING THE TRADE OR PROPRIETARY NAME IF
APPLICABLE, THE COMMON OR USUAL NAME, AND THE CLASSIFICATION
NAME, IF KNOWN
Common Name: Picture archiving and communications system
Proprietary Name: TOMTEC-ARENA
Classification Name: 21 CFR 892.2050,
System, Image Processing, Radiological
Product code: QIH, Class II
3) INDICATIONS FOR USE
Indications for use of TOMTEC-ARENA software are quantification and reporting of
cardiovascular, fetal, and abdominal structures and function of patients with suspected
disease to support the physicians in the diagnosis.
4) DEVICE DESCRIPTION
TOMTEC-ARENA (TTA2) is a clinical software package for reviewing, quantifying and
reporting digital medical data. The software is compatible with different IMAGE-ARENA
platforms and third party platforms.
Platforms enhance the workflow by providing the database, import, export and other
services. All analyzed data and images will be transferred to the platform for archiving,
reporting and statistical quantification purposes.
TTA2 consists of the following optional modules:
TOMTEC Imaging Systems GmbH Page 1 of 11
Confidential510(k) Summary
TOMTEC-ARENA (TTA2.40)
 TOMTEC-ARENA SERVER & CLIENT
 IMAGE-COM/ECHO-COM
 REPORTING
 AutoStrain (LV, LA, RV)
 2D CARDIAC-PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS (Adult and Fetal)
 4D LV-ANALYSIS
 4D RV-FUNCTION
 4D CARDIO-VIEW
 4D MV-ASSESSMENT
 4D SONO-SCAN
5) SUBSTANTIALLY EQUIVALENT DEVICES
Primary Predicate Device: TomTec-Arena TTA2
K150122 (February 13, 2015)
Secondary Predicate Device: QLAB Advanced Quantification Software
K200974 (June 03, 2020)
TOMTEC Imaging Systems GmbH believes that the TOMTEC-ARENA modifications that
are the subject of this 510(k) are substantially equivalent to TomTec-Arena TTA2
(K150122).
6) TECHNOLOGICAL COMPARISON TO PREDICATE DEVICES
The TOMTEC-ARENA software with the modified modules has the same intended use
and technological characteristics as the legally marketed predicate devices. A
comparison of the proposed TOMTEC-ARENA application to the currently marketed
primary predicate device (TomTec-Arena TTA2) and secondary predicate device (QLAB
Advanced Quantification Software) are provided in the tables below:
TOMTEC Imaging Systems GmbH Page 2 of 11
Confidential510(k) Summary
TOMTEC-ARENA (TTA2.40)
Feature Primary Predicate Device Secondary Predicate Device Subject Device Discussion / Comment
TomTec-Arena QLAB TOMTEC-ARENEA
(K150122) (K200974)
GENERAL COMPARISON
Intended Use TomTec-Arena software is a clinical QLAB Quantification software is a TOMTEC-ARENA software is a Intended Use of primary and subject
software package designed for software application package. It is clinical software package designed device are identical
review, quantification and reporting of designed to view and quantify image for review, quantification and (unchanged)Intended Use/Indications
structures and function based on data acquired on Philips ultrasound reporting of structures and function for use of secondary predicate and
multi-dimensional digital medical data systems. based on multi-dimensional digital subject device are comparable and
acquired with different modalities. medical data acquired with different considered equivalent.
TomTec-Arena is not intended to be modalities.TOMTEC-ARENA is not
used for reading of mammography intended to be used for reading of
images. mammography images.
Indications for Indications for use of TomTec-Arena QLAB Quantification software is a Indications for use of TOMTEC- Indications for use of primary and
Use TTA2 software are quantification and software application package. It is ARENA TTA2 software are subject device are identical
reporting of cardiovascular, fetal, designed to view and quantify image quantification and reporting of (unchanged).
abdominal structures and function of data acquired on Philips ultrasound cardiovascular, fetal, abdominal
patients with suspected disease to systems. structures and function of patients Intended Use/Indications for use of
support the physicians in the with suspected disease to support the secondary predicate and subject
diagnosis physicians in the diagnosis device are comparable and
considered equivalent.
Anatomical Site Quantification and reporting of Quantification of imaging data Quantification and reporting of Identical to primary and secondary
cardiovascular, fetal, and abdominal acquired from ultrasound machines of cardiovascular, fetal, and abdominal predicate.
structures and function. various anatomical structures and structures and function.
function.
where used Hospitals, clinics, and physician´s Hospitals, clinics, and physician´s Hospitals, clinics, and physician´s Identical to primary and secondary
(hospital, home, offices. offices. offices. predicate.
ambulance, etc.)
Design Software as a medical device Software as a medical device Software as a medical device Identical to primary and secondary
predicate.
4D RV-FUNCTION
Application 4D RV-Function provides a The 3D Auto RV Q-App is an The 4D RV-Function is a right Revised for clarity. Considered
Description comprehensive evaluation of the right integration of the segmentation ventricular quantification tool for equivalent to primary predicate. No
ventricle including volumes and strain engine of the QLAB HeartModel and routine clinical work, pulmonary impact to the safety or effectiveness
analysis. It provides EDV, ESV, the TOMTEC-ARENA 4D RV- hypertension, and right-sided heart of the device.
RVEF, SV, RVLS, TAPSE and FAC. Function thereby providing a dynamic failure. The application helps to
Distance measurements can also be Right Ventricle clinical functionality. overcome complexity of right- Comparable and considered
analyzed. This software ventricle analysis by calculating equivalent to secondary predicate.
delivers a quick and reproducible standard values based on a semi- This modification to QLAB was
analysis of the right ventricle, thus cleared by K191647.
TOMTEC Imaging Systems GmbH Page 3 of 11
Confidential510(k) Summary
TOMTEC-ARENA (TTA2.40)
increasing your diagnostic confidence automatically generated 3D surface
by visualizing the complexity of the model.
RV shape in 3D.
SW Version 2.0 15.0 3.0 Updated due to changes to SW code.
Integrates HeartModel auto-
segmentation technology with 4D RV-
Function algorithm for RV border
placement.
Measurements Added: Added measurements are identical to
Volume and function of Right EDVI EDVI secondary predicate device.
Ventricle ESVI ESVI
Export Formats: As cleared Added: Identical to secondary predicate.
Beutel value export into .stl and .obj Beutel value export into .stl and .obj Workflow improvements for user
format format convenience.
No impact to the safety or
effectiveness of the device.
Contour 3D surface model is created based 3D surface model is created 3D surface model is created Identical to secondary predicate.
Generation on user defined anatomical automatically using machine learning automatically using machine learning Workflow improvements for user
landmarks. User is able to edit the algorithms without user interaction. algorithms without user interaction. convenience.
contour of the surface model. User is able to edit, accept or reject User is able to edit, accept or reject No impact to the safety or
the contours or the anatomical the contours or the anatomical effectiveness of the device.
landmarks. landmarks.
4D MV-ASSESSMENT
Application 4D MV-Assessment is used for The 3D Auto MV Q-App is a semi- 4D MV-ASSESSMENT provides a Revised for clarity. Considered
Description comprehensive morphological and automatic tool that essentially is an morphological and functional analysis equivalent to primary predicate. No
functional assessment of the mitral integration of the machine-learning of the mitral valve (MV) using 3D/4D impact to the safety or effectiveness
valve. Based on an easy and intuitive derived segmentation engine of the echocardiography data. Models of of the device.
workflow the application package QLAB HeartModel and the TOMTEC- anatomical structures such as MV
generates models of anatomical Arena TTA2 4D MV-Assessment annulus, leaflets and the closure line Comparable and considered
structures such as MV annulus, application thereby providing a are generated. The derived equivalent to secondary predicate.
leaflet and the closure line. dynamic Mitral Valve clinical parameters allow quantification of This modification to QLAB was
Automatically derived parameters quantification tool. pre- and post-operative valvular cleared by K200974-
allow quantification of pre- and post- function and a comparison of
operative valvular function and morphology.
comparison of morphology. 4D MV-
Assessment improves the
presentation of anatomy and findings
and visualizes the complex
morphology and dynamics of the
mitral valve.
SW Version 2.3 15.0 2.5 Updated due to changes to SW code.
TOMTEC Imaging Systems GmbH Page 4 of 11
Confidential510(k) Summary
TOMTEC-ARENA (TTA2.40)
Measurements As cleared Added: Identical to secondary predicate.
Prolapse Height Prolapse Height
Open Coaptation Gap Open Coaptation Gap
Open Coaptation Width Open Coaptation Width
Open Coaptation Area 3D Open Coaptation Area 3D
C-shaped Annulus C-shaped Annulus
Distal Anterior Leaflet Angle Distal Anterior Leaflet Angle
Contour 3D surface model is created based 3D surface model is created semi- 3D surface model is created semi- Identical to secondary predicate.
Generation on user defined anatomical automatically using machine learning automatically using machine learning Workflow improvements for user
landmarks. algorithm without user interaction. algorithm without user interaction. convenience in initial model display
User is able to edit the contour of the User is able to edit, accept, or reject User is able to edit, accept, or reject and landmark proposal.
surface model before proceeding with the initial landmark proposals of the the initial landmark proposals of the User is still able to edit, accept or
the workflow. mitral valve anatomical locations. mitral valve anatomical locations. reject the contours.
No impact to the safety or
effectiveness of the device.
4D LV-ANALYSIS
Application Volume quantification and function The Dynamic HeartModel (DHM) 4D LV-ANALYSIS provides Revised for clarity. Considered
Description analysis of the left ventricle based on provides automatic 3D anatomical morphological and functional equivalent to primary predicate. No
3D data has proven to be more borders and left ventricle (LV) and left analyses of the left ventricle. Based impact to the safety or effectiveness
accurate and reproducible than using atrium (LA) border tracking across all on 3D echo datasets a 4D model of the device.
2D clips. 4D LV-Analysis is a vendor frames of the cardiac cycle or cycles. (Beutel) is generated that represents
independent offline solution for 3D the cavity of the LV and optionally Comparable and considered
speckle tracking. It provides an also the LA. Volumes, Strain and equivalent to secondary predicate.
automated workflow for quantitative Displacement are quantified on a
and reproducible analysis of left global and segmental level.
ventricular deformation and global
strain values. 4D LV Function is a
basic application for the assessment
of left ventricular volumes, EF and
GLS while 4D LV Analysis allows for
advanced investigations including
twist, regional strain and deformation
analysis. Results are mapped onto
the LV Beutel surface for clear
visualization. All results can be stored
and exported.
SW Version 3.1 15.0 3.2 Updated due to changes to SW code.
TOMTEC Imaging Systems GmbH Page 5 of 11
Confidential510(k) Summary
TOMTEC-ARENA (TTA2.40)
Measurements As cleared Same technology extended to Atrium
(LA Option in 4D LV-Analysis).
Added:
LAVmin LA EDV (LA EDVI) LA EDV corresponds to LAVmin, and
LAVmax LA ESV (LA ESVI) LA ESV corresponds to LAVmax.
LA PreAV (LA PreAVI) LA PreAV is based on the same
dynamic quantification as LA volume
curve (prior to contraction).
LA trueEF LA trueEF uses the same formula as
LA EF LA EF LA EF but different volume values
(LA PreAV instead of LAVmax).
LA GLS LA GLS is a well-known parameter
and described in clinical literature.
Export formats: As cleared Added: Identical to secondary predicate (see
Beutel value export into .stl and .obj Beutel value export into .stl and .obj "4D RV-Function").
format format
Enhancements: As cleared n/a Adapted Bullseye based an ASE2015 Workflow improvements for user
guideline. convenience. No impact to the safety
Workflow improvements by removed or effectiveness of the device.
Beutel revision step & contour
proposal and retracking within
tracking revision step.
AUTOSTRAIN
Application n/a - features and functionality were AutoStrain LV, LA, RV included AutoStrain is a quantification tool of Based on cleared Addins of IMAGE-
Description part of IMAGE-COM (AutoSTRAIN global and regional function based on COM and 2D CPA, a dedicated
Addins) and 2D CPA contour detection and tracking. It module (CAP) was released.
supports a bull’s eye display of Time This CAP only includes features and
to Peak Longitudinal Strain and End- measurements that were already
Systolic Longitudinal Strain. Further, available in IMAGE-COM (and
this CAP provides the calculation of respective Addins), 2D CPA or have
GLS (Global Peak Longitudinal been cleared by QLAB. The
Strain). integration "on cart" requires
dedicated CAPs (e.g. for the
application layout). This CAP is used
in the same clinical context and
workflows. No impact to the safety or
effectiveness of the device.
SW Version n/a - features and functionality were 15.0 2.1 No previous SW version as features
part of IMAGE-COM (AutoSTRAIN and functionality were included in
Addins) and 2D CPA IMAGE-COM and/or 2D CPA
TOMTEC Imaging Systems GmbH Page 6 of 11
Confidential510(k) Summary
TOMTEC-ARENA (TTA2.40)
Measurements n/a - features and functionality were Added: Measurements available within this
part of IMAGE-COM (AutoSTRAIN LASr ED LASr ED CAP were already available in
Addins) and 2D CPA LAScd ED LAScd ED IMAGE-COM/2D CPA or are identical
LASct ED LASct ED to the secondary predicate (QLAB).
LASr AC LASr AC No impact to the safety or
LAScd AC LAScd AC effectiveness of the device.
LASct AC LASct AC
Feature Primary Predicate Device Subject Device Discussion / Comment
TomTec-Arena TOMTEC-ARENEA
(K150122)
IMAGE-COM
Application Image-Com is a dedicated DICOM viewer for IMAGE-COM is a basic module for reviewing and Revised for clarity. Considered equivalent to
description cardiovascular ultrasound and Cath Lab measuring digital medical data. It supports routine primary predicate. No impact to the safety or
examinations. Easy and quick workflows for loading, analyzing and saving effectiveness of the device.
image review is supported by a variety of time medical studies, e.g. for the purpose of creating
saving features. Prior studies can easily be reports. IMAGE-COM is where basic
compared with current measurements can be performed and the entry
examinations and the simultaneous display of Cath point for advanced analysis modules. Study related
Lab, echo or nuclear medicine examinations routine measurements can be imported, displayed,
provides additional edited and exported to accompanying reporting
clinical information. systems.
SW Version 5.4 5.5 Updated due to changes to SW code.
Measurements ECHO Added: Existing ECHO measurements have been
Annulus dmin extended. No impact to the safety or effectiveness
Annulus dmax of the device.
Annulus dmean
Annulus Area
Annulus Perimeter
Annulus d(area)
Ann-Ost left diam
Ann-Ost right diam
MV E Valsalva
MV A Valsalva
MV E/A Valsalva
Measurements Vascular Renal (AT & AI) Existing Vascular measurements have been
(continued) extended. No impact to the safety or effectiveness
of the device.
TOMTEC Imaging Systems GmbH Page 7 of 11
Confidential510(k) Summary
TOMTEC-ARENA (TTA2.40)
Exam Types Added:
ECHO and Vascular Pediatric ECHO and Vascular were extended to Pediatric.
Cath Extension of existing measurement methods to
Cath.
Deployment Application based (FAT) Browser support added IMAGE-COM is available as a zero footprint
solution (TOMTEC ZERO). No change in intended
use or use environment. No impact to the safety or
effectiveness of the device.
Auto LV AutoLV enables IMAGE-COM to quantify left Unchanged Identical to primary predicate.
ventricular function based on 4-chamber and 2-
chamber views of the left ventricle (biplane
Simpson) with a single mouse click per view
Auto Strain The AutoStrain application yields cardiac function Unchanged Identical to primary predicate.
analysis based on a workflow. After selecting views
to analyze, and starting the application results are
shown directly for user’s review.
AutoSTRAIN As cleared Added: Length measurements/values added because of
Measurements LVLd (A4C) user needs:
(continued) LVLs (A4C) User is able to double check if LV axis is acquired
LVLd (A2C) without foreshortening. In this case both Diastolic
LVLs (A2C) and Systolic Major Axis should be similar.
AVC
AutoSTRAIN Bullseye (16 segments) Bullseye (18 segments) Adapted Bullseye based on ASE2015 guideline.
Enhancements
Auto LA AutoLA* is a fast and intuitive automation of Unchanged Identical to primary predicate.
Simpson’s biplane method.
By selecting apical 4- and 2-chamber views,
AutoLA finds end-systole and proposes tracings of
the left atrial blood tissue interface
Auto LA LA Vol (Simpson) Extension of existing left atrium LA volume Improvement for user convenience. No impact to
Measurements (Simpson) measurements with contour proposal the safety or effectiveness of the device.
step
Cath-QCA Cath QCA is a calculation of stenosis diameter and Unchanged Identical to primary predicate.
area, obstruction and reference diameters and
obstruction length
Cath-QVLA Cath-QVLA is a calculation of EDV and ESV, EF, Unchanged Identical to primary predicate.
Measurements SV, CO of the Left ventricle
4D CARDIO-VIEW
Application 4D Cardio-View is a vendor independent offline 4D CARDIO-VIEW is an advanced analysis tool for Revised for clarity. Considered equivalent to
Description solution to review and analyze 3D echo data. It 3D/4D echocardiography data. Anatomical primary predicate. No impact to the safety or
offers an easy and fast navigation to get the perfect structure visualization, volume measurements (LV effectiveness of the device.
3D view with just two clicks by using the unique and/or generic), and specified or manual
TOMTEC Imaging Systems GmbH Page 8 of 11
Confidential510(k) Summary
TOMTEC-ARENA (TTA2.40)
D’Art tool. Features like the multi-slice D’Art measurements are possible. Various tools are
(multiple 2D slices), basic measurements and available for rendering that display 2- and 3-
workflow based volume measurements make 4D dimensional morphology and function for defined
Cardio-View an all-purpose solution for any cardiac structures.
structure. All measurements and views can be
stored as bookmarks for easy retrieval at any time.
SW Version 3.0 3.1 Updated due to changes to SW code.
Measurements as cleared Unchanged Identical to primary predicate.
Export formats: as cleared Added: Identical to secondary predicate (see "4D RV-
Beutel value export into .stl and .obj format Function").
2D CARDIAC-PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS (Adult and Fetal)
Application 2D Cardiac Performance Analysis is a vendor 2D CARDIAC PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS Revised for clarity. Considered equivalent to
Description independent offline solution for the (2D CPA) provides parameters for myocardial primary predicate. No impact to the safety or
quantification of left ventricular deformation. function and deformation analysis. Based on effectiveness of the device.
Detailed analysis of myocardial velocity, two dimensional echo B-Mode datasets a
displacement, strain and strain rate is speckle tracking algorithm supports the
performed based on 2D speckle tracking in calculation of 2D-contour models of the
long or short axis views. Basic parameter endocardial and epicardial border.
assessment and comprehensive result export Corresponding velocities, displacements,
options make 2D CPA suitable for research strains, strain rates and functional parameters
and routine use. can be derived. The results are displayed as
figures, in charts or they are available as
numerical values.
FETAL 2D CARDIAC PERFORMANCE Analysis of the fetal heart can be performed
ANALYSIS (FETAL 2D CPA) is a vendor based on the cleared implementation of
independent, offline solution for the speckle tracking that is available in 2D CPA.
quantification of cardiac deformation of the Quantification of fetal structures is part of the
fetal heart. Detailed analysis of myocardial cleared Indications for Use. Technology
velocity, displacement, strain and strain rate is already available is applied within the
performed based on 2D speckle tracking in Intended Use/Indications for Use of the
the long axis views of the left ventricle and device. Substantial evidence for this
right ventricle. Basic parameter assessment modification is available.
as well as advanced quantifications, together Optimized workflow (exclusively for 4CH clips)
with comprehensive result export options, to analyze both ventricles in the same 4CH
make FETAL 2D CPA suitable for research clip and within the same application session.
and routine use. Same algorithm for contour detection is used.
SW Version 1.2 1.4 Updated due to changes to SW code.
TOMTEC Imaging Systems GmbH Page 9 of 11
Confidential510(k) Summary
TOMTEC-ARENA (TTA2.40)
Measurements Left ventricle strain calculation Extended to right ventricle strain and atrium Existing measurements were extended to
strain (e.g. GLS and segmental strain/strain right ventricle strain and atrium strain (similar
rate values). to LA Option).
- MAPSE (lateral and septal)
- Basal ventricle diameter at ES and ED of RV
and LV
- Ventricle length at ES and ED of RV and LV
- Myocardial area at ED of LV and RV
REPORTING
Application Dedicated module for Ultrasound Reporting. REPORTING provides various workspaces which Revised for clarity. Considered equivalent to
Description are dedicated to different clinical applications and primary predicate. No impact to the safety or
supports the workflow within clinical institutions. effectiveness of the device.
Measurements can be imported, modified and
exported in order to support connected reporting
systems.
SW Version 2.01 2.40 SW version is identical and correspond to the
TOMTEC-ARENA version, due to release
dependencies.
Workspaces / Added: Based on existing and extended measurements,
Areas Echo Vascular new workspaces were added in order to display
Stress Echo and structure those measurements in a dedicated
Pediatric workspace (view) for easy clinical reporting. No
Fetal impact to the safety or effectiveness of the device.
TEE Pre/Post OP
TOMTEC Imaging Systems GmbH Page 10 of 11
Confidential510(k) Summary
TOMTEC-ARENA (TTA2.40)
7) NON-CLINICAL PERFORMANCE DATA
The proposed modifications were tested in accordance with TOMTEC’s internal
processes. Design Control activities to assure the safe and effective performance of the
modified TOMTEC-ARENA include but are not limited to the following:
 Product Specifications
 Design Review
 Risk Analysis
 Software Verification
TOMTEC-ARENA is considered a Moderate Level of Concern. Software verification was
performed according to the standard IEC 62304 “Medical device software - Software life-
cycle processes”.
A Summative Usability Evaluation was performed considering FDA’s Guidance for
Industry and FDA Staff “Applying Human Factors and Usability Engineering to Medical
Devices” and according to the standard IEC 62366-1 “Medical devices – Part 1:
Application of usability engineering to medical devices”. TOMTEC-ARENA has been
found to be safe and effective for the intended users, uses, and use environments.
Completion of all verification activities demonstrated that the subject device meets all
design and performance requirements. Verification activities performed confirmed that
the differences in the design did not adversely affect the safety and effectiveness of the
subject device.
8) SUMMARY OF CLINICAL TESTS:
No clinical testing conducted in support of substantial equivalence when compared to
the predicate devices.
9) CONCLUSION
Verification and validation activities required to establish the performance, functionality,
and reliability characteristics of the modified TOMTEC-ARENA software with respect to
the predicate device(s) were performed successfully. Testing performed demonstrated
that the proposed TOMTEC-ARENA (TTA2.40) meets defined requirements and
performance claims.
Based on the conformance to standards, development under TOMTEC’s Quality
Management System, and the successful verification and validation testing, TOMTEC
believes that the proposed TOMTEC-ARENA (TTA2.40) is substantially equivalent to the
legally marketed predicate device(s).
TOMTEC Imaging Systems GmbH Page 11 of 11
Confidential