March 14, 2022
Arterys Inc.
℅ Marina Codari
Head of Clinical Evidence
51 Federal Street, Suite 305
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94107
Re: K203744
Trade/Device Name: Arterys MICA
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical image management and processing system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH, LLZ
Dated: February 8, 2022
Received: February 11, 2022
Dear Marina Codari:
We have reviewed your Section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced
above and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the
enclosure) to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the
enactment date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance
with the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Act) that do not require approval of a
premarket approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general
controls provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that
some cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
located at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR 803) for
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.04.32
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK203744 - Marina Codari Page 2
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR 4, Subpart A) for
combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections 531-
542 of the Act); 21 CFR 1000-1050.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR Part
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Laurel Burk, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Diagnostic X-ray Systems Team
Division of Radiological Health
OHT7: Office of In Vitro Diagnostics
and Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureTraditional 510(k) Premarket
Notification
for
Arterys® MICA
K203744/S002
Arterys Inc.
2100 Fillmore Street #100, San
Francisco, CA 94115, U.S.A
Arterys Inc., Traditional 510(k)Section 5. 510(k) Summary
Arterys Inc., Traditional 510(k)510(k) Summary
1. General Information
Date Prepared:December 17, 2020
Date Updated: March 08, 2022
Submitter Information
Company Name Arterys Inc.
Company Address 2100 Fillmore Street #100, San
Francisco, CA 94115, U.S.A
Contact Person John Axerio-Cilies
CEO and CTO
Contact Information Email: regulatory@arterys.com
Phone: 1 (650) 391-7111
Proposed Device
Proprietary Name Arterys®MICA
Common Name Medical image processing software
Model Number AMM7
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.2050 Medical image management and processing system
Product Code QIH/LLZ
Regulatory Class II
Predicate Device
Predicate Device Arterys®MICA, K192437
Product Code QIH/LLZ
Arterys Inc., Traditional 510(k)2. Device Description
Arterys MICA, already cleared as per the predicate, is adedicatedsoftwareapplicationused as a
Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) and non-DICOM information and
data management system. Pre-existing DICOM images, such as CT or MR, are uploaded into
Arterys MICA from a PACS or a scanner. Arterys MICA iscompletelyhostedinthecloudandis
accessed using a compatible web browser bynavigatingtothefollowing https://app.arterys.com.
Cloud servers are provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS) and service is accessible globally.
The Viewer AI application of Arterys MICA is designed around a modular architecture of
separate componentsthatmakeupabasicimageviewer.TheseincludetheStudylist,fromwhich
studies are selected and opened, the image display (2D, 3D, MIP, etc), view synchronization,
metadata information, and various navigational, measurement, and other action tools.
Functionality provided by the Viewer AI is extended by the additional Cardio AI and Oncology
AI application modules which add support for specificclinical workflows:
● Cardiac Workflow Module: Evaluates multi-slice and multi-phase velocity-encoded
cardiovascular magnetic resonance (MR) images to quantify blood flow and ventricular
function. In addition, perfusion and delayed enhancement datasets are analyzed and
quantified, and for parametric mapping, T1, T2, and T2* values are obtained to assess
tissue changes in the myocardium, as well as ECV calculations.
● Arterys MICA includes an optional OncologyAI modulewhichprovidesanalyticaltools
to help the user assess and documentchangesinmorphologicalactivityatdiagnosticand
therapy follow-up examinations. It is a tool used to supporttheoncologicalworkflow by
helping the user confirm the absence or presence of lesions, including evaluation,
quantification, follow-up, and documentation of any such lesions.
Arterys MICA uses many deep learning algorithms to reduce many tedious, time-consuming
manual steps, such as segmentation, landmark identification, etc. Theresultsof theseAI models
are available on-screen to the user for furtherreviewandediting.Thesoftwaredoes notperform
any functions that could not be accomplished by a trained user with a manual method; the
purpose of the automationistosavetimeandautomatepotentialerror-pronemanualtasks,while
allowing the results to be reviewed as per the normal clinical workflow.
NOTE: The clinician retains the ultimate responsibility for makingthepertinentdiagnosisbased
on their standard practices and visual comparison of images. Arterys MICA software is a
complement to these standard procedures.
Arterys Inc., Traditional 510(k)3. Indications for Use
Indications for Use Statement forArterys MICAisas follows:
Arterys® MICA software is a medical diagnostic application that displays, processes,
stores, and transfersDICOM andnon-DICOM medicaldata.Itprovidesthecapabilityto
store images and patient information, and perform filtering, digital manipulation, and
quantitative measurements. The client software is designed to run on standard personal
and business computers and on monitors/screens that meet appropriate technical
specifications for image diagnosis.
Arterys MICA includes an optional Cardio AI modulewhichisused toanalyzetheheart
and its major vessels using multi-slice, multi-phase, and velocity-encoded
cardiovascular MR images. It provides clinically relevant andreproducible,quantitative
data, and has been tested and validated on MR images acquired fromboth1.5Tand3.0
T MR Scanners.
Arterys MICA includes an optional Oncology AI module which provides analytical
tools to help the user assess and document changes in morphological activity at
diagnostic and therapy follow-up examinations. It is a tool used to support the
oncological workflow by helping the user confirm the absence or presence of lesions,
including evaluation, quantification, follow-up, and documentation of any such lesions
Arterys MICA software is intended to be used as a support tool by trained healthcare
professionals to aidindiagnosis.Itisintendedtoprovideimageandrelatedinformation
that is interpreted by a trained professional to render findings and/or diagnosis, but it
does not directly generate any diagnosis or potential findings.
4. Predicate Device Comparison
The indications for use of the proposed device Arterys MICA is similar to the predicate device.
They are intended to be used as a support tool by trained healthcare professionals to aid in
diagnosis. The devices are intended to provide image and related information that is interpreted
by a trained professional to render findings and/or diagnosis.
The indications for use of theproposed deviceconsistsof theindicationsfor use statementof the
predicate, Arterys MICA (K192437). Thedifferencesintheaddedindicationsfor use aremainly
due toduplicationwithotherphrases intheexisting ArterysMICA (K192437) indicationsfor use
statement and don’t raise different questions of safety and effectiveness.
Arterys Inc., Traditional 510(k)The ability of Viewer AI to display annotations (segmentation, measurements, etc.) was
expanded to integrate similar outputs of 3rd party models(boundingboxes, heatmaps,etc.).The
safety and effectiveness of the 3rd party model is covered under the original manufacturer’s
regulatory clearance; Arterys only displays the simple output.
The cardiac MRI T1 and T2 workflows were added to the proposed Cardio AI product. The
workflows and feature lists are in alignment with the SCMR (Society for Cardiovascular
Magnetic Resonance) Post Processing Consensus Statement (https://scmr.org/page/guidelines).
The workflows and calculations are based on published industry technical standards and
peer-reviewed publications, resulting in no different questions of safety and effectiveness.
The Arterys MICA software has the similar technological characteristics as the predicate device
and has the same uses and applications as the predicate device. Differences include minor
incremental updates to some of the existingsoftwarefeaturesfor user experienceimprovements.
These software changes do not impact safety or efficacy of the device.
5. Performance Data
Safety and performance of Arterys MICA has been evaluated and verified in accordance with
software specifications and applicable performance standards through software verification and
validation testing. The software verification and validation activities were performedas per IEC
62304:2006/AC:2015- Medical device software – Software life cycle processes and ISO
14971:2019 Medicaldevices-- Applicationofrisk managementtomedicaldevices, inadditionto
the FDA Guidance documents Guidance for the Content of PremarketSubmissions forSoftware
Contained in Medical Devices and Content of Premarket Submission for Management of
Cybersecurity in Medical Devices.
Hundreds of software verification and validation testswererepeatedlyconductedthroughoutthe
software development effort, with any defects logged andtracedtothefailedtests.Defectswere
then fixed or were assessed for approval in the released product.
In our validation assessment, we compared the average T1 and T2 values obtained with the
Arterys software in delineated regions of interest (ROIs) to the average intensity valueobtained
in a similar ROI delineated in OEM vendor generated inline maps. The results showed that the
difference between calculated and expected T1 and T2 values were within predefined accuracy
requirements (i.e., 30msand4msfor T1andT2values,respectively).T1andT2valuesderived
with the Arterys software depends on the ROI selected by the user.
Arterys Inc., Traditional 510(k)In the T1 workflow, endocardial and epicardial contours can be generated using adeeplearning
model. The generated contours are user-modifiable.Thesecontoursareused toderiveGlobalT1
values. A standalone performance assessment was performed on 90 Cardiac T1 Mapping MRI
short axis (SAX) scans from 16 studies. As a result,thedeviceperformedas intendedcompared
to ground-truth contours.
6. Conclusion
Based on the information submitted in this premarket notification, and based on the indications
for use, technological characteristics and performance testing, Arterys MICA raises no new or
different questions of safety and effectiveness and is substantially equivalent to the predicate
device in terms of safety, efficacy and performance.
Arterys Inc., Traditional 510(k)