Manteia Technologies Co., Ltd. March 9, 2023
℅ Dandan Chen
RA
1903, B Tower, Zijin Plaza
No. 1811 Huandao East Road
Xiamen, 361001
CHINA
Re: K221706
Trade/Device Name: AccuContour
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical image management and processing system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QKB
Dated: May 31, 2022
Received: June 13, 2022
Dear Dandan Chen:
We have reviewed your Section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced
above and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the
enclosure) to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the
enactment date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance
with the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Act) that do not require approval of a
premarket approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general
controls provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that
some cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
located at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.06.00
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK221706 - Dandan Chen Page 2
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR 4, Subpart A) for
combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections 531-
542 of the Act); 21 CFR 1000-1050.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR Part
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Lora D. Digitally signed by
Lora D. Weidner -S
Weidner -S Date: 2023.03.09
19:17:29 -05'00'
Lora D. Weidner, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Radiation Therapy Team
DHT8C: Division of Radiological Imaging
and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 06/30/2023
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K221706
Device Name
AccuContour
Indications for Use (Describe)
It is used by radiation oncology department to register multi-modality images and segment (non-contrast) CT images, to
generate needed information for treatment planning, treatment evaluation and treatment adaptation.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (6/20) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFK221706
510(k)Summary
510(k) Summary
Ⅰ.SUBMITTER
ManteiaTechnologiesCo.,Ltd.
1903,BTower,ZijinPlaza,No.1811HuandaoEastRoad,Xiamen
ChinaEstablishmentRegistrationNumber:3016686005
ContactPerson:DandanChen
Position:RA
Tel:+86592-6100813
Email:chendandan@manteiatech.com
DatePrepared:March9,2023
Ⅱ.DEVICE
NameofDevice:AccuContour
CommonorUsualName:MedicalImagingSoftware
ClassificationName:System,Imagingprocessing,Radiological
RegulatoryClass: Ⅱ
ProductCode:QKB
RegulationNumber:21CFR892.2050
ReviewPanel:Radiology
Ⅲ.PREDICATEDEVICE
Device 510(k)Number ProductName
PredicateDevice K191928 AccuContourTM
ReferenceDevice K182624 MIM-MRTDosimetry
ReferenceDevice K173636 Velocity
ReferenceDevice K181572 WorkflowBox
Ⅳ.DEVICEDESCRIPTION
The proposed device, AccuContour, is a standalone software which is used by radiation
oncology department to register multi-modality images and segment (non-contrast) CT
images, to generate needed information for treatment planning, treatment evaluation and
treatmentadaptation.
Theproducthastwoimageprocessingfunctions:
(1) Deeplearningcontouring:itcanautomaticallycontourorgans-at-risk,inheadandneck,
1/9510(k)Summary
thorax,abdomenandpelvis(forbothmaleandfemale)areas,
(2) Automaticregistration:rigidanddeformableregistration,and
(3) Manualcontouring.
Italsohasthefollowinggeneralfunctions:
 Receive,add/edit/delete,transmit,input/export,medicalimagesandDICOMdata;
 Patientmanagement;
 Reviewofprocessedimages;
 Extensiontool;
 Planevaluationandplancomparison;
 Doseanalysis.
Ⅴ.INDICATIONSFORUSE
It is used by radiation oncology department to register multi-modality images and segment
(non-contrast)CTimages,togenerateneededinformationfortreatmentplanning,treatment
evaluationandtreatmentadaptation.
2/9510(k)Summary
Ⅵ.SUBSTANTIALLYEQUIVALENT(SE)COMPARISION
Table1ComparisonofTechnologyCharacteristics
ITEM ProposedDevice PredicateDevice ReferenceDevice ReferenceDevice ReferenceDevice
K191928 K182624 K173636 K181572
RegulatoryInformation
RegulationNo. 21CFR892.2050 21CFR892.2050 21CFR892.2050 21CFR892.2050 21CFR892.2050
ProductCode QKB QKB LLZ LLZ LLZ
Indication for It is used by radiation It is used by radiation oncology MIMsoftwareisusedbytrained Velocityisasoftwarepackagethat Workflow Box is a software
Use oncology department department to register medical professionals as a tool provides the physicians a means system designed to allow users
to register multi-modality images and to aid in evaluation and for comparison of medical data to route DICOM-compliant data
multi-modality images segment (non-contrast) CT information management of including imaging data that is to and from automated
and segment images, to generate needed digital medical images. The DICOMcompliant. processing components.
(non-contrast) CT information for treatment medical image modalities It allows the display, annotation, Supported modalities include
images, to generate planning, treatment evaluation include, but are not limited to, volume operation, volume CT,MR,RTSTRUCT.
needed information for andtreatmentadaptation. CT, MRI, CR, DX, MG, US, rendering, registration, and Workflow Box includes
treatment planning, SPECT, PET and XA as fusion of medical images as an processing components for
treatment evaluation supported by ACR/NEMA aid during use by diagnostic automatically contouring
and treatment DICOM 3.0. MIM assists in the radiology, oncology, radiation imaging data using deformable
adaptation. followingindications: therapy planning and other image registration to support
Receive, transmit, store, medical specialties. Velocity is atlas based contouring,

retrieve, display, print, and notintendedformammography. re-contouringofthesamepatient
process medical images and machine learning based
andDICOMobjects. contouring.
Create, display and print Workflow Box is a data routing

reports from medical andimage processing toolwhich
images. automaticallyappliescontoursto
3/9510(k)Summary
Registration, fusion datawhichissenttooneormore

display, and review of oftheincludedimage processing
medical images for workflows. Contours generated
diagnosis, treatment by Workflow Box may be used
evaluation, and as an input to clinical workflows
treatmentplanning. including, but not limited to,
Evaluation of cardiac left radiation therapy treatment

ventricular function and planning.
perfusion, including left Workflow Box must be used in
ventricular enddiastolic conjunction with appropriate
volume, end-systolic software to review and edit
volume, and results
ejectionfraction. generated automatically by
Localization and definition Workflow Box components, for

of objects such as tumors example image visualization
and normal tissues in software
medicalimages. must be used to facilitate the
Creation, transformation, review and edit of contours

and modification of generated by Workflow Box
contours for applications component
including, but not limited applications.
to, quantitative analysis, Workflow Box is intended to be
aiding adaptive therapy, used by trained medical
transferring contours to professionals.
radiation therapy Workflow Box is notintended to
transferring contours to automaticallydetectlesions.
4/9510(k)Summary
radiation therapy
transferring contours to
radiation therapy treatment
planning systems, and
archiving contours for
patient follow-up and
management.
Quantitative and statistical

analysis of PET/SPECT
brain scans by comparing
to other registered
PET/SPECTbrainscans.
Planning and evaluation of

permanent implant
brachytherapy procedures
(not including radioactive
microspheres).
Calculating absorbed

radiation doseas a result of
administering a
radionuclide. When using
device clinically, the user
should only use FDA
approved
radiopharmaceuticals. If
using with unapproved
5/9510(k)Summary
ones, this device should
only be used for research
purposes.
Lossy compressed
mammographic images and
digitized film screen images
must not be reviewed for
primary image interpretations.
Images that are printed to film
must be printed using an
FDA-approved printer for the
diagnosis of digital
mammography images.
Mammographic images must be
viewed on a display system that
hasbeen clearedbythe FDAfor
the diagnosis of digital
mammography images. The
software is not to be used for
mammographyCAD.
Label/labeling Conform with 21CFR Conformwith21CFRPart801 Conformwith21CFRPart801 Conformwith21CFRPart801 Conformwith21CFRPart801
Part801
Operating Windows Windows WindowsandMACsystem WindowsandMACsystem Windows
System
SegmentationFeatures
Algorithm DeepLearning DeepLearning Atlas-based Atlas-based Atlas Based contouring,
6/9510(k)Summary
registrationbased
re-contouring, machine learning
basedcontouring
Compatible Non-ContrastCT Non-ContrastCT Non-ContrastCT Non-ContrastCT CT、MR
Modality
Compatible No Limitation on No Limitation on No Limitation on scanner No Limitation on scanner No Limitation on scanner
ScannerModels scanner model, scanner model, model, model, model,
DICOM 3.0 DICOM 3.0 compliance DICOM 3.0 compliance DICOM3.0compliancerequired. DICOM 3.0 compliance
compliancerequired. required. required. required.
Compatible No Limitation on TPS No Limitation on TPS model, No Limitation on TPS model, No Limitation on TPS model, No Limitation on TPS model,
Treatment model,DICOM DICOM DICOM DICOM DICOM
Planning 3.0 compliance 3.0compliancerequired. 3.0compliancerequired. 3.0compliancerequired. 3.0compliancerequired.
System required.
Unattended Yes No Notstated No Yes
workstation
RegistrationFeatures
Algorithm IntensityBased. IntensityBased. IntensityBased. IntensityBased. IntensityBased.
Image Auto rigid registration Autorigidregistration Auto rigid registration and Auto rigid registration and Auto rigid registration and
registration and auto deformable deformableregistration. deformableregistration. deformableregistration.
registration.
Compatible Auto rigid registration: CT,MRI,PET CT, MRI, CR, DX, MG, US, PET/SPECT/CT/MRI CT,MRI
Modality CT,MRI,PET SPECT,PETandXA
Auto deformable
registration: CT, MRI,
CBCT
7/9510(k)Summary
Compatible No Limitation on No Limitation on No Limitation on scanner No Limitation on scanner No Limitation on scanner
ScannerModels scanner model, scanner model, model, model, model,
DICOM 3.0 DICOM 3.0 compliance DICOM 3.0 compliance DICOM3.0compliancerequired. DICOM 3.0 compliance
compliancerequired. required. required. required.
No Limitation on No Limitation on No Limitation on scanner No Limitation on scanner No Limitation on scanner
Compatible
scanner model, scanner model, model, model, model,
Treatment
DICOM 3.0 DICOM 3.0 compliance DICOM 3.0 compliance DICOM3.0compliancerequired. DICOM 3.0 compliance
Planning compliancerequired. required. required. required.
System
PlanEvaluationFeature
Display of Yes No Notstated Yes No
DICOM RT
Plans
Isodose Line Yes No Notstated Yes No
Display
DVH statistics Yes No Notstated Yes No
display
RT Plans Yes No Notstated Yes No
comparison
DoseAnalysisFeature
Display of Yes No Notstated Yes No
DICOM RT
Doses
Dose Yes No Notstated Yes No
accumulation
8/9510(k)Summary
Ⅶ.PERFORMANCEDATA
The following performance data were provided in support of the substantial equivalence
determination.
1. Non-ClinicalTestConclusion
Deformableregistrationperformancetest
The registration performance test was performed on proposed device and reference device
(K182624) to evaluate the deformable registration accuracy.All fixed images and moving
images are generated in healthcare institutions in U.S. The scanner models covered
products from five major vendors. The image registration feature is tested on
multi-modality image sets from different patients. The Normalized Mutual Information
(NMI) was usedfor evaluation. NMIvalueswerecalculatedontwosets ofimages forboth
the proposed device and reference device (K182624), respectively. The NMI value of
proposeddevicewascomparedwiththatofthereferencedevice.Accordingtotheresults,it
could be concluded that the NMI of proposed device was non-inferior to that of the
referencedevice.
2. ClinicalTestConclusion
Noclinicalstudyisincludedinthissubmission.
3. SoftwareVerificationandValidationTesting
Software verification and validation testing were conducted, and documentation was
provided as recommended by FDA's Guidance for Industry and FDAStaff, "Guidance for
the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical Devices." The
softwareforthisdevicewasconsideredasa"major"levelofconcern.
Software benchtestinginthe form ofUnit, System andIntegrationtestswere performedto
evaluate the performance and functionality of the new features and software updates.
Softwareverificationandregressiontestinghave beenperformedsuccessfullytomeettheir
previouslydeterminedacceptancecriteriaasstatedinthetestplans.
Ⅷ.SUBSTANIALLYEQUIVALENT(SE)CONCLUSION
The proposed device is substantially equivalent to the predicate device AccuContourTM
(K191928).
9/9