Ceevra, Inc.
℅ Ken Koster
CTO
149 New Montgomery Street, 4th Fl.
SAN FRANCISCO CA 94105
April 25, 2023
Re: K222676
Trade/Device Name: Ceevra Reveal 3
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical image management and processing system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: March 20, 2023
Received: March 21, 2023
Dear Ken Koster:
We have reviewed your Section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced
above and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the
enclosure) to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the
enactment date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance
with the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Act) that do not require approval of a
premarket approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general
controls provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that
some cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
located at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR 803) for
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.06.01
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK222676 - Ken Koster Page 2
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR 4, Subpart A) for
combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections 531-
542 of the Act); 21 CFR 1000-1050.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR Part
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 06/30/2023
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K222676
Device Name
Ceevra Reveal 3
Indications for Use (Describe)
Ceevra Reveal 3 is intended as a medical imaging system that allows the processing, review, analysis, communication and
media interchange of multi-dimensional digital images acquired from CT or MR imaging devices and that such processing
may include the generation of preliminary segmentations of normal anatomy using software that employs machine
learning and other computer vision algorithms. It is also intended as software for preoperative surgical planning, and as
software for the intraoperative display of the aforementioned multi-dimensional digital images. Ceevra Reveal 3 is
designed for use by health care professionals and is intended to assist the clinician who is responsible for making all final
patient management decisions.
The machine learning algorithms in use by Ceevra Reveal 3 are for use only for adult patients (22 and over). Three-
dimensional images for patients under the age of 22 or of unknown age will be generated without the use of any machine
learning algorithms.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (6/20) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(k) Summary K222676
1. General Information
510(k) Sponsor Ceevra,Inc.
Address 149New MontgomerySt,4thFloor
SanFrancisco,CA 94105
Correspondence Person Ken Koster
CTO, Ceevra,Inc.
Contact Information Email:kkoster@ceevra.com
Phone:415-305-5326
Date Prepared April18,2023
2. Subject Device
ProprietaryName CeevraReveal3
Common Name Reveal3
ClassificationName AutomatedRadiologicalImageProcessing Software
RegulationNumber 21CFR 892.2050
Product Code QIH
RegulatoryClass II
3. Predicate Device
ProprietaryName CeevraReveal2.0
PremarketNotification K173274
ClassificationName System,ImageProcessing, Radiological
RegulationNumber 21CFR 892.2050
Product Code LLZ
RegulatoryClass II
14. Device Description
Ceevra Reveal 3 (“Reveal 3”), manufactured by Ceevra, Inc. (the “Company”), is a software as a
medical device with two main functions: (1) it is used by Company personnel to generate
three-dimensional (3D) images from existing patient CT and MR imaging, and (2) it is used by
clinicianstoviewandinteractwiththe3Dimagesduringpreoperativeplanningandintraoperatively.
Clinicians view 3D images via the Reveal 3 Mobile Image Viewer software application whichrunson
compatible mobiledevices,andtheReveal3DesktopImageViewersoftwareapplicationwhichrunson
compatible computers. The 3D images may also be displayed on compatible external displays, or in
virtualreality(VR)formatwithacompatibleoff-the-shelfVRheadset.
Reveal 3 includes additional features that enable clinicians to interact with the 3D images including
rotating,zooming,panning,andselectivelyshowingorhidingindividualanatomicalstructures.
5. Indications for Use
Ceevra Reveal 3 is intended as a medical imaging system that allows the processing, review, analysis,
communication and media interchange of multi-dimensional digital images acquired from CT or MR
imaging devices and that such processing may include the generation of preliminary segmentations of
normal anatomyusingsoftwarethatemploysmachinelearningandothercomputervisionalgorithms.Itis
also intended assoftwareforpreoperativesurgicalplanning,andassoftwarefortheintraoperativedisplay
of the aforementioned multi-dimensional digital images. Ceevra Reveal 3 is designed for use by health
care professionals and is intended to assist the clinician who is responsible for making all final patient
managementdecisions.
The machine learning algorithms in use by Ceevra Reveal 3 are for use only for adult patients (22 and
over). Three-dimensional images for patients under the age of 22 or of unknown age will be generated
withouttheuseofanymachinelearningalgorithms.
6. Substantial Equivalence
Asdetailedinthefollowingtables,theintendeduseandtechnologicalcharacteristicsofthesubjectdevice
aresubstantiallyequivalenttothepredicatedevices.
Table6.1:ComparisonofIndicationsforUseStatements
SubjectDevice: PrimaryPredicate:
CeevraReveal3(K222676) CeevraReveal2.0(K173274)
CeevraReveal3isintendedasamedicalimaging CeevraReveal2.0isintendedasamedicalimaging
systemthatallowstheprocessing,review,analysis, systemthatallowstheprocessing,review,analysis,
communicationandmediainterchangeof communicationandmediainterchangeof
multi-dimensionaldigitalimagesacquiredfromCTor multi-dimensionaldigitalimagesacquiredfromCTor
MRimagingdevicesandthatsuchprocessingmay MRimagingdevices.Itisalsointendedassoftware
includethegenerationofpreliminarysegmentationsof forpreoperativesurgicalplanning,andassoftwarefor
normalanatomyusingsoftwarethatemploysmachine theintraoperativedisplayoftheaforementioned
2learningandothercomputervisionalgorithms.Itisalso multi-dimensionaldigitalimages.CeevraReveal2.0
intendedassoftwareforpreoperativesurgicalplanning, isdesignedforusebyhealthcareprofessionalsandis
andassoftwarefortheintraoperativedisplayofthe intendedtoassisttheclinicianwhoisresponsiblefor
aforementionedmulti-dimensionaldigitalimages. makingallfinalpatientmanagementdecisions.
CeevraReveal3isdesignedforusebyhealthcare
professionalsandisintendedtoassisttheclinicianwho
isresponsibleformakingallfinalpatientmanagement
decisions.
ThemachinelearningalgorithmsinusebyCeevra
Reveal3areforuseonlyforadultpatients(22and
over).Three-dimensionalimagesforpatientsunderthe
ageof22orofunknownagewillbegeneratedwithout
theuseofanymachinelearningalgorithms.
Table7.2:ComparisonofDeviceCharacteristics
SubjectDevice PrimaryPredicate
Feature/ CeevraReveal3 CeevraReveal2.0
Function (K222676) (K173274)
SupportedimageModalities CTandMR CTandMR
Intendedusers HealthcareProfessionals HealthcareProfessionals
Healthcarefacilitiessuchas Healthcarefacilitiessuch
Intendedenvironment
hospitalsandclinics ashospitalsandclinics
DeviceClass ClassII ClassII
Interactivemanipulation Interactivemanipulation
Imageanalysisfeatures
and3Dvisualization and3Dvisualization
Preoperativeviewingof3Dimages Yes Yes
Intraoperativeviewingof3Dimages Yes Yes
3Dimagesusedintraoperativelyforreal-time
guidance,navigationorotherwiseintegrated No No
withsurgicalinstruments
Segmentationworkperformedby InternalOperators InternalOperators
Built-infeaturesforend-usertocompare
No No
CT/MRtodeviceoutput
Quantitativeoutputscalculatedbydevice No No
Softwaregeneratessemi-automated
No No
segmentationsofabnormalanatomy
Softwaregeneratessemi-automated
Yes No
segmentationsofcertainnormalanatomy
7. Performance Data
Safety and performance of Ceevra Reveal 3 has been evaluated andverifiedinaccordancewithsoftware
specifications and applicable performance standards through software verification and validationtesting.
Additionally, the software validation activities were performed in accordancewithIEC62304:2006/Amd
1: 2015- Medical device software – Software life cycle processes, in addition to the FDA Guidance
3documents, “Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical
Devices”and“ContentofPremarketSubmissionforManagementofCybersecurityinMedicalDevices.”
Four machine learning models areincludedinCeevraReveal3.Thesemodelswereverifiedwithdatasets
of actual CT or MR imaging studies of patients. A totalof141imagingstudieswereusedtoevaluatethe
device. No dataset contained more than one imaging studyfromanyparticularpatient.Noimagingstudy
used to verifyperformancewasusedfortraining;independenceoftrainingandtestingdatawereenforced
at the level of the scanning institution, namely, studies sourced from a specific institution were used for
either training or testing but could not be used for both. The data used in the device validation ensured
diversity in patient population and scanner manufacturers. Subgroup analysis was performed for patient age,
patient sex, and scanner manufacturers. For non-prostate related datasets, verification datasets included
40% female patients and60%malepatients.Acrossalldatasets,32%ofpatientswereunder60yearsold,
32% were 60 to 70 years old, 30% were over 70 years old, and 6% were of unknown age. Scanner
manufacturers included GE Medical Systems, Siemens, Toshiba, and Philips Medical Systems.Ethnicity
ofpatientsinthedatasetswasreasonablycorrelatedtotheoverallUSpopulation.
Performance was verified by comparingsegmentationsgeneratedbythemachinelearningmodelsagainst
segmentations generated by medical professionals from the same imaging study. The performanceofthe
machine learning models, characterized by the Sørensen–Dice coefficient (DSC) or the Hausdorff
distance metric at the 95th percentile (HD-95),wasasfollows:prostate(fromMRprostateimaging)0.87
DSC; bladder (fromMRprostateimaging)0.90DSC;neurovascularbundles(fromMRprostateimaging)
7.8 mm HD-95; kidney (from CT abdomen imaging) 0.89 DSC; kidney (from MR abdomen imaging)
0.87 DSC; artery (from CTabdomenimaging)0.87DSC;artery(fromMRabdomenimaging)0.83DSC;
vein (from CT abdomen imaging) 0.86 DSC; vein (from MR abdomen imaging) 0.81 DSC;artery(from
CTchestimaging)0.85DSC;vein(fromCTchestimaging)0.81DSC.
8. Conclusion
Ceevra Reveal 3 is deemed to be substantially equivalent to its predicate device basedonindicationsfor
use, technological characteristics and performance testing. Ceevra Reveal 3 raises no new questions
relatedtosafetyoreffectiveness.
4