Orthofix US LLC
℅ Shant Aghyarian
Regulatory Affairs Program Manager
3451 Plano Parkway
LEWISVILLE TX 75056
September 26, 2023
Re: K230252
Trade/Device Name: OFIX MIS App
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical image management and processing system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: LLZ
Dated: January 31, 2023
Received: August 30, 2023
Dear Shant Aghyarian:
We have reviewed your Section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced
above and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the
enclosure) to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the
enactment date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance
with the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Act) that do not require approval of a
premarket approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general
controls provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that
some cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
located at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR 803) for
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.06.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK230252 - Shant Aghyarian Page 2
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR 4, Subpart A) for
combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections 531-
542 of the Act); 21 CFR 1000-1050.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR Part
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 06/30/2023
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
Submission Number (if known)
IK230252
Device Name
OFIX MIS App
Indications for Use (Describe)
The OFIX MIS App software assists healthcare professionals in viewing, storing, and
measuring images as well as planning orthopedic surgeries. The app allows service providers
to plan surgical procedures by making measurements for the placement of surgical implants.
Clinical judgement and experience are required to properly use the software.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
ZPrescription
Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) F Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
"An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number."510(k) SUMMARY
K230252
OFIX MIS App
510(k) Owner Information
Name: Orthofix US LLC
Address: 3451 Plano Parkway
Lewisville, TX, USA
Telephone Number: 214-937-2176
Fax Number: 214-937-3322
Email: shantaghyarian@orthofix.com
Registration Number: 2183449
Contact Person: Shant Aghyarian
Date Prepared: September 21, 2023
Name of Device
Trade Name / Proprietary
Name: OFIX MIS App
Common Name: OFIX MIS App
Product Code(s): LLZ
Classification Name: System, Image Processing, Radiological
Regulatory Class: Class II per 21 CFR 892.2050
Predicate Devices: Nemaris Surgimap 2.0, K141669Device Description
OFIX MIS App
The OFIX MIS App will provide a novel mobile phone solution to supplement the use of
calipers when selecting rods used in immobilization and stabilization of pedicle screw type
spinal systems. The App will rely on capturing 2D images used in spinal implant
procedures through use of mobile phone camera. The App measures the difference
between known Orthofix pedicle screw diameters and provides feedback useful in
determining appropriate rod length with corresponding Orthofix product number.
Indications for Use
The OFIX MIS App software assists healthcare professionals in viewing, storing, and
measuring images as well as planning orthopedic surgeries. The App allows service
providers to plan surgical procedures by including tools for measuring anatomical
components for placement of surgical implants. Clinical judgment and experience are
required to properly use the software.
Technological Comparison
The technological comparison is provided as the Substantial Equivalence table below.Substantial Equivalence TableNon-Clinical Test Conducted for Determination of Substantial Equivalence
Software Verification and Validation Testing
Software verification and validation testing were conducted and documentation was provided as
recommended by FDA’s Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, “Guidance for the Content of
Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical Devices.” The testing demonstrated
that the App meets the required specifications.
Usability Testing
The OFIX MIS App demonstrated accuracy and usability with bench top and simulated use
testing.
Conclusion
The OFIX MIS App is substantially equivalent to the predicate despite the minor
technological differences described. The testing data support the safety and effectiveness of
the OFIX MIS App and demonstrate performance as intended in the specified use
conditions. This performance is comparable to the predicate's respective software functionality.