TheraPanacea December 22, 2023
℅ Bhairavi Ajachandra
QA/RA Manager
7 bis boulevard Bourdon
Paris, 75004
FRANCE
Re: K232479
Trade/Device Name: ART-Plan
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.5050
Regulation Name: Medical Charged-Particle Radiation Therapy System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: MUJ
Dated: November 20, 2023
Received: November 20, 2023
Dear Bhairavi Ajachandra:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.06.06
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK232479 - Bhairavi Ajachandra Page 2
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Lora D. Weidner, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Radiation Therapy Team
DHT8C: Division of Radiological Imaging
and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 06/30/2023
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K232479
Device Name
ART-Plan
Indications for Use (Describe)
ART-Plan’s indicated target population is cancer patients for whom radiotherapy treatment has been prescribed. In this
population, any patient for whom relevant modality imaging data is available.
ART-Plan is not intended for patients less than 18 years of age.
The indicated users are trained medical professionals including, but not limited to, radiotherapists, radiation oncologists,
medical physicists, dosimetrists and medical professionals involved in the radiation therapy process.
The indicated use environments are, but not limited to, hospitals, clinics and any health facility involved in radiation
therapy.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (6/20) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFTheraPanacea SAS K232479
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
510(k) Summary
This510(k)Summaryissubmittedinaccordancewith21CFRPart807,Section807.92.
Levelofdocumentation:
Enhanced
Submitter'sName:
TheraPanaceaSAS
Submitter'sAddress:
7bisboulevardBourdon
75004Paris
France
Telephone:+33962527819
EstablishmentRegistrationNumber:
3019834893
ContactPerson:
BhairaviAjachandra
Telephone:+33(0)620604982
DatePrepared:
10Aug2023
BelowsummariestheDeviceClassificationInformationregardingtheTheraPanacea
ART-Plan:
PrimaryProductCode:
Regulation Device Device Product Classification
Number Class Code Panel
892.5050 Medicalcharged-particle ClassII MUJ Radiology
radiationtherapysystem
DeviceTradeName:
ART-Plan
DeviceCommonName:
ART-Plan
Page1of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
IntendedUse:
ART-Planisasoftwareintendedtobeusedbytrainedclinicianswhoarefamiliarwithradiation
therapy,suchasmedicalphysicists,medicaldosimetristsandradiationoncologists.The
softwareconsistsofdifferentapplications,eachusedforspecificpurposesatadifferentphase
ofradiationtreatmentplanning.
ART-Planoffersthefollowingtoolstoaidintheworkflowofradiotherapytreatment:
● Multi-modalvisualizationandrigid-anddeformableregistrationofanatomicaland
functionalimagessuchasCT,MR,PET-CT,4D-CT,CBCTandsynthetic-CT
generatedfromCBCT
● Displayoffusedandnon-fusedimagestofacilitatethecomparisonanddelineationof
imagedatabytheuser
● Manualgeneration,modificationandsemi-automaticgenerationofcontoursforthe
regionsofinterest
● Automaticgenerationofcontoursfororgansatriskandhealthylymphnodes,based
onmedicalpractices,onmedicalimagessuchasCTandMRimages
● Generationofsynthetic-CTfromMRimagesforsupportedanatomies
● Generationofsynthetic-CTfromCBCTimagesforsupportedanatomies
● DosecomputationonCTand/orsynthetic-CTimagesforexternalbeamirradiation
withphotonbeams
● AssistedCBCT-basedoff-lineadaptationdecision-makingforsupportedanatomies
Thedeviceisintendedtobeusedinaradiationtherapyclinicalsetting,bytrained
professionalsonly.
IndicationsforUse:
ART-Plan’s indicated target populationiscancerpatientsforwhomradiotherapytreatmenthas
been prescribed. In this population, any patient for whom relevant modality imaging data is
available.
ART-Planisnotintendedforpatientslessthan18yearsofage.
The indicated users are trained medical professionals including, but not limited to,
radiotherapists, radiation oncologists, medical physicists, dosimetrists and medical
professionalsinvolvedintheradiationtherapyprocess.
Theindicateduseenvironmentsinclude,butarenotlimitedto,hospitals,clinicsandanyhealth
facilityinvolvedinradiationtherapy.
Page2of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
SummaryofSubstantialEquivalence:
The following predicate devices have been chosen that the ART-Plan can claim equivalence with and these are detailed below in Table 1.
SummaryofSubstantialEquivalence.
GeneralComparison
GeneralInformation
Property ProposedDevice PrimaryPredicate Referencedevice Reference Reference Comment
ART-Planv2.1.0 Ethos Treatment ART-Plan device device
Management,2.1; v1.10.1 ECLIPSE Eclipse Treatment
Ethos Treatment WITHAAA PlanningSystem
Planning,1.1
Common System, Planning, accelerator, linear, Radiological image System, Planning, System, Planning, Theproposeddevicesharesthesame
Name Radiation Therapy medical processing software Radiation Therapy Radiation Therapy
common name ”System, Planning,
Treatment forradiationtherapy Treatment Treatment
RadiationTherapyTreatment”withthe
primary predicate, especially Ethos
Treatment Planning, 1.1 (that has
“MUJ” asaproductcodeinits510(k)
summary) and with some of the
referencedevices.
Device TheraPanaceaSAS Varian Medical TheraPanaceaSAS Varian Medical Varian Medical
Manufactur Systems,Inc Systems (now Systems,Inc
N/A
er Varian Medical
Systems,Inc)
510k N/A K212294 K230023 K041403 K102011 N/A
Device The proposed device, primary
Classificatio II II II II II predicate and reference devices
n haveidenticaldeviceclassification.
Primary MUJ IYE,MUJ QKB MUJ MUJ The primary product code isMUJfor
Product
“System,Planning,RadiationTherapy
Code
Treatment” asitisasoftwareusedin
theplanningofradiotherapytreatment
like the primary predicate, especially
Ethos Treatment Planning, 1.1 (that
has “MUJ” as a product code in its
510(k)summary) andsomereference
devices use it as their primary or
secondarycode
Page3of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
Secondary Assecondaryproductcode:
Product - QKB (Radiological image
Code processing software for radiation
therapy)hasbeenincludedasthe
softwareusesAIalgorithmsandis
intendedforradiationtherapy.Itis
also the primary code of the
reference device ART-Plan
QKB,LLZ - LLZ,MUJ - LHN v1.10.1ofwhichART-Plan2.1.0is
anupdate;
- LLZ (System, Image Processing,
Radiological) has been included
as the software is used inimage
processing and it is also the
subsequent codeofthereference
deviceART-Planv1.10.1ofwhich
ART-Plan2.1.0isanupdate.
Target ART-Plan’s ART-Plan’s indicated
Population indicated target target population is
populationiscancer cancer patients for
patients for whom whom radiotherapy
The patient target
radiotherapy treatment has been
groups are the Any patients with The proposeddeviceandtheprimary
treatment has been prescribed. In this
patients for whom Notstated malignantorbenign predicate have identical target
prescribed. In this population,anypatient
radiation therapyis diseases populations.
population, any for whom relevant
indicated.
patient for whom modality imaging data
relevant modality isavailable.
imaging data is
available.
Environmen Hospital Hospital Hospital Hospital Hospital The proposed device, primary
t predicate and reference devices
haveidenticaltargetenvironments.
Intended IntendedUse IntendedUse IntendedUse IntendedUse Intendeduse
The intended use and indications
Use/ ART-Plan is a Ethos Treatment ART-Plan is a TheVarianEclipse Not availableinthe
for use of the proposed device,
Indication softwareintendedto Management is software for device is a summary:
ART-Plan v2.1.0 and the primary
forUse be used by trained used to manage multi-modal treatmentplanning
predicate (especially Ethos
clinicians who are and monitor visualization, system used for Indicationforuse
Treatment Planning, 1.1) are
familiar with radiation therapy contouring and diagnostic image The Eclipse
similar as they arebothsoftwares
radiation therapy, treatment plans processing of 3D analysis, Treatment Planning
intendedtobeusedintheplanning
such as medical and sessions; it is images of cancer contouring and System (Eclipse
ofradiotherapytreatment1:
physicists, medical intendedtobeused patients for whom segmentation, TPS) is used to
dosimetrists and geometrical plan radiotherapy
1
Informationfoundonthepredicatecurrentorprevious510(k)summaries,labellinganditsmanufacturer’s(VarianMedicalSystems,Inc)website.
Page4of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
radiation with a treatment radiotherapytreatment planning, photon treatments for they allow multi-modal visualisation
oncologists. The planningsystem. hasbeenprescribed. and electron dose patients with rigid rigid- and deformable
softwareconsistsof Ethos Treatment calculation and malignantorbenign registration for the same modalities
different Planningisusedto It allows the user to planreview. diseases. Eclipse ofimages(CT,MRandPET)
applications, each generate and view, create and TPSisusedtoplan
used for specific modify radiation modify contours for Indicationforuse external beam they allow displaying fused and
purposes at a therapy treatment theregionsofinterest. TheVarianEclipse irradiation with non-fused images to facilitate the
different phase of plans. It also allows to device is used to photon, electron comparisonanddelineationofimage
radiation treatment generate plan photon and and proton beamA, databytheuser
planning. Indications for automatically, and electron radiation as well as for
Use based on medical therapytreatments internal irradiation they allow manual generation,
ART-Plan offersthe Ethos Treatment practices,thecontours employing linear (brachytherapy) modification and semi-automatic
followingtoolstoaid Management is for the organs at risk accelerators and treatments. In generation of contours for the
in the workflow of indicated forusein and healthy lymph other similar addition, the regionsofinterest
radiotherapy managing and nodes and to register teletherapy Eclipse Proton Eye
treatment: monitoring combinations of devices with x-ray algorithm is they allow automatic segmentation
treatment plans anatomical and energiesfrom1-50 specifically on medical images using AI
Multi-modal and sessions. functional images. MV, as well as indicated for algorithms
visualization and Ethos Treatment Contours and images Cobalt-60, and planning proton
rigid- and Planning is require verifications, electron energies treatment of theyallowgenerationofsynthetic-CT
deformable indicated forusein potential from 1-50 MeV. neoplasms of the fromCBCTimages
registration of generating and modifications, and Eclipse will plan eye.
anatomical and modifying radiation subsequently the the 3D they allow dose computation on CT
functional images therapy treatment validation of a trained radiotherapy and/or synthetic-CT images for
such as CT, MR, plans. user with professional treatment externalbeamirradiationwithphoton
PET-CT, 4D-CT, qualifications in approaches to beams
CBCT and anatomy and combinedmodality
synthetic-CT radiotherapy before plans, coplanar they allow assisted CBCT-based
generated from their export to a and non-coplanar off-line adaptation decision-making
CBCT Treatment Planning fields, static and forsupportedanatomies
Display of fused System. ARC fields, beam
and non-fused modifiers, and they allow the import, manipulation,
images to ART-Plan offers the beam intensity visualisation, generation and the
facilitate the following visualization, modulators. exportofDICOMimages
comparison and contouring and Eclipse also
delineation of manipulation tools to includes tools for
imagedatabythe aid in the preparation treatment Theintendedusefortheproposed
user of radiotherapy preparation device has been adapted to
Manual treatment: (diagnostic image provideamorespecificdescription
generation, and analysis, of the proposed device but does
- Multi-modal
modification and contouring and notrepresentanewintendeduse,
semi-automatic visualizationandrigid- segmentation)and except for the additional modality
generation of and deformable planreview. forthesameclaimascomparedto
contours for the registration of theprimarypredicateas:
regionsofinterest anatomical and
functional images
Page5of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
Automatic such as CT, MR, - it can generate syntheticCTfrom
generation of PET-CT, 4D-CT and CBCTandMRimageswhereasitis
contours for CBCT not possible with Ethos Treatment
organsatriskand -Displayoffusedand Planning, 1.1 to do so with MR
healthy lymph non-fused images to images. Thisdoesnotrepresentan
nodes, based on facilitate the additionalclaimasthetechnological
medicalpractices, comparison and characteristics are the same and it
on medical delineation of image doesnotraisedifferentquestionsof
images such as safety and effectiveness. Also, this
databytheuser
CT and MR feature is covered by thereference
images - Manual modification device ART-Plan v1.10.1, which is
Generation of and semi-automatic the previous version cleared of the
synthetic-CT from generationofcontours proposeddeviceART-Planv2.1.0.
MR images for for the regions of
supported interest
anatomies -Automaticgeneration
Generation of of contoursfororgans
synthetic-CT from at risk and healthy
CBCT images for
lymph nodes, based
supported
on medical practices,
anatomies
on medical images
Dosecomputation
such as CT and MR
on CT and/or
images.
synthetic-CT
images for - Generation of
external beam pseudo-CT for
irradiation with supportedanatomies
photonbeams
Assisted Thedeviceisintended
CBCT-based to be used in a
off-line adaptation radiation therapy
decision-making clinical setting, by
for supported trained professionals
anatomies only.
The device is
intendedtobeused IndicationsforUse
in a radiation ART-Plan is indicated
therapy clinical for cancerpatientsfor
setting, by trained whom radiation
professionalsonly. treatment has been
planned.Itisintended
to be used by trained
IndicationsforUse medical professionals
ART-Plan’s including, but not
indicated target limitedto,radiologists,
Page6of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
populationiscancer radiation oncologists,
patients for whom dosimetrists, and
radiotherapy medicalphysicists.
treatment has been
prescribed. In this ART-Plan is a
population, any software application
patient for whom intended to display
relevant modality and visualize 3D
imaging data is multi-modal medical
available. image data. The user
may import, define,
ART-Plan is not display, transformand
intended for store DICOM 3.0
patients less than compliant datasets
18yearsofage. (including regions of
interest structures).
The indicatedusers These images,
are trained medical contours and objects
professionals can subsequently be
including, but not exported/distributed
limited to, within the system,
radiotherapists, across computer
radiation networks and/or to
oncologists,medical radiation treatment
physicists, planning systems.
dosimetrists and Supported modalities
medical include CT, PET-CT,
professionals CBCT,4D-CTandMR
involved in the images.
radiation therapy
process. ART-Plan supports
AI-based contouring
The indicated use onCTandMRimages
environments and offers
include, but arenot semi-automatic and
limitedto,hospitals, manual tools for
clinics and any segmentation.
health facility
involvedinradiation To help the user
therapy. assess changes in
image data and to
obtain combined
multi-modal image
information, ART-Plan
allows the registration
of anatomical and
Page7of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
functional images and
display of fused and
non-fused images to
facilitate the
comparison of patient
image data by the
user.
With ART-Plan, users
are also able to
generate, visualize,
evaluate and modify
pseudo-CT from MRI
images.
.
Page8of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
SystemInformationComparison
SystemInformation
Property ProposedDevice PrimaryPredicate Referencedevice Reference Referencedevice Comment
ART-Planv2.1.0 Ethos Treatment ART-Plan device Eclipse Treatment
Management,2.1; v1.10.1 ECLIPSE WITH PlanningSystem
Ethos Treatment AAA
Planning,1.1
Method of Standalone Standalonesoftware Standalone Computerbased Computerbased
Use softwareapplication device software application softwaredevice softwaredevice
accessed via a accessed via a
compliant browser compliant browser
(Chrome, Mozilla (Chrome or Mozilla
Firefox and Edge) Firefox) on a
on a personal personal computer,
computer, tablet or tablet or phone (In
The proposed device andtheprimary
phone (In case of case of connection
predicate are both standalone
connection to the to the platform with
software. More details have been
platform with a ascreenofaphone
found on the reference device
screen of a phone or atablet,theuser
ART-Plan v1.10.1whichhas identical
oratablet,theuser mustchoosethe
methods of use than the proposed
must choose the option for the
device. An improvement has been
option for the desktop site of his
introduced with ART-plan v2.1.0 as it
desktop site of his communication
canbealsousedonEdgebrowser.
communication device.Theplatform
device. The is optimally used
platformisoptimally with 17 inches and
usedwith17inches upscreen.
and up screen. Facilitates display
Facilitates display and visualization of
and visualization of databyuser.
databyuser.
Data Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes The proposed device, the primary
Visualizatio predicates and all references devices
n / haveadatavisualisationandgraphical
Graphical interface
Interface
Synthetic Generation of CT Generation of CT Generation of CT N/A N/A The proposed device and primary
CT density image densityimageseries density image predicate can generate synthetic-CT
series out of outofCBCTimages series out of fromCBCTimage.
multiple MR-image multiple MR-image
series and CBCT series The proposed device can generate
images synthetic CT from CBCT and MR
imageswhereasitisnotpossiblewith
Page9of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
theprimarypredicatetodosowithMR
images. This does not represent an
additional claim as the technological
characteristics are the same and it
does not raise different questions of
safety and effectiveness. Also, this
feature is covered by the reference
device ART-Planv1.10.1,whichisthe
previous version cleared of the
proposeddeviceART-Planv2.1.0.
Dose Dose computation Dose calculation N/A The AAA dose AcurosXB dose
computatio on CT and/or with AAA dose calculation model is calculationalgorithm
n synthetic-CT calculation model a 3D
images for external andAcurosXBdose convolution/superpos
beam irradiation calculationalgorithm ition algorithm that
withphotonbeams on CT and / or models primary
syntheticCTimages photons, photons
scattered in the
medium,
contamination
The proposed device, the primary
electrons and
predicateandsomereferencedevices
transport electrons
ECLIPSE WITH AAA and Eclipse
near tissue
Treatment Planning System can
heterogeneities. The
performdosecomputation.
AAAdosecalculation
model is comprised
of two main
components, one
being the
configuration
algorithm and the
other one the actual
dose calculation
algorithm.
Off-line Assisted Ethos Treatment N/A N/A N/A
adaptation CBCT-basedoff-line Management allows
decision-m adaptation the physician to do
aking decision-making for initial planning,
The proposed device andtheprimary
supported review and approve
predicatecanassistoff-lineadaptation
anatomies candidateplans,and
decision-making.
monitor ongoing
treatments. Support
for adaptive
radiotherapy
Page10of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
treatment planning
and automated plan
generation
Supported Registration: Registration: Registration: Segmentation: Registration: The proposed device, the primary
Modalities StaticandgatedCT, CT (including StaticandgatedCT Eclipsealsoincludes CT/MR/PET Image predicate and most of the reference
MR, PET (via the synthetic CT from (including 4D-CT tools for treatment Registration devices propose both registrationand
r C 4 e D T g - i C st o T r f a , tio s C a n B id C o T P f E a t T h n ) e d , C PE B T CT), MR and a P re n E g d T istra C t B io ( C v n i T a ), of M t t h h R e e , p (d re ia p g a n r o a s ti t o ic n image 4 (r D egis i t m ra a ti g o e n o d f is t p im la e y s d e iff g e m re e n n t ta m ti o o d n ali o ti n es. medical images of
synthetic-CT CTofsaidPET) and analysis, yes yes seriesof3D
generated from Segmentation: contouring and images)
segmentation) and
CBCT Segmentation:
CTandsyntheticCT planreview.
CT(injectedornot),
fromCBCT Segmentation:
Segmentation: MRimages,DICOM
Geometrical shapes,
CT(injectedornot), RTSTRUCT
Manual editing and
MRimages,DICOM
manipulation tools,
RTSTRUCT,
Automatic
synthetic-CT from
/semi-automatic
CBCT
tools,
Automatic/semi-auto
matic on-demand
and post-processing
tools for individual
organs/structures,
Automatic
on-demand and
pre-processing tools
for multiple
organs/structures,3D
Autornargin, Logical
operators
DataExport Distribution of ARIA RadOnc Distribution of DICOM includingRT VARiS/Vision The proposed device, the primary
DICOM compliant integration, DICOM DICOM compliant objects,MDCshaper database integration, predicate and reference deviceshave
Images into other RT, other image Images into other files, blocks and DICOMRT/3.0,other identical data export capabilities with
DICOM compliant formats, eclipse DICOM compliant compensator datato image formats, DICOMformat.
systems. scripting API systems. Par Scientific, plan export field
(ESAPI) read only and dose data to coordinates to laser
access, eclipse picker AcQSim, system
scripting API integrated with Varis
(ESAPI) write verification, ASCIIfile
access, Eclipse to laser system,
automation, Export Varian CadPlan plus
field coordinates to 6.0
laser system, basic
Page11of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
RT prescription
informationavailable
Compatibili Compatible with ARIA RadOnc Compatible with DICOM includingRT VARIs/Vision The proposed device, the primary
ty data from any integration, DICOM data from any objects, CART database integration, predicate and reference deviceshave
DICOM compliant RT, other image DICOM compliant format, TIFF format, DICOMRT/3.0,other identicalcompatibility(DICOMformat)
scanners for the formats, scanners for the CMP format, image formats,
applicable electromagnetic applicable Configurable pure Electromagnetic
modalities. digitizer, eclipse modalities. pixel data, digitizer,filmscanner
scripting API PortalVision MArk 1
(ESAPI) read only & 2, Varian CT
access, eclipse option,
scripting API Electromagnetic
(ESAPI) write Digitilizer, Film
access, eclipse scanner
automation, Basic
RT prescription
informationavailable
TechnicalInformationComparison
TechnicalInformation
Property ProposedDevice PrimaryPredicate Referencedevice Reference Referencedevice Comment
ART-Planv2.1.0 Ethos Treatment ART-Plan device Eclipse Treatment
Management,2.1; v1.10.1 ECLIPSE WITH PlanningSystem
Ethos Treatment AAA
Planning,1.1
Delineation AI AI AI Notstated Notstated The proposed device, primary predicate and
Method one of the reference devices (ART-Plan
v1.10.1)shareanAIdelineationmethod.
Image Multi-modal and Registration: Multi-modal and NA CT/MR/PET Image
registration mono-modal. CT (including mono-modal. Registration
Rigidanddeformable Rigidanddeformable
synthetic CT from 4D image display
Automatic and Automatic and Theproposeddevice,theprimarypredicateand
CBCT), MR and (registration of time
manual initialization manual initialization most of the reference devices propose
PET yesyes
(landmarks, fusion (landmarks, fusion registration of medical images of different
box,alignment). box,alignment). seriesof3Dimages) modalities.
Registration for the Registration for the
purposes of purposes of
replanning/
Page12of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
recontouring and replanning/
AI-based automatic recontouring
contouring. and AI-based
automaticcontouring.
Segmentatio Automatically CTandsyntheticCT Automatically Eclipse also Geometrical shapes,
nFeatures delineates OARs and fromCBCT delineates OARsand includes tools for Manual editing and
healthylymphnodes healthylymphnodes treatment manipulation tools,
preparation Automatic
Deep learning Deep learning (diagnostic image /semi-automatic
algorithm. algorithm and analysis, tools,
contouring and Automatic/semi-auto
Automatic Automatic segmentation) and matic on-demand
segmentation segmentation planreview. and post-processing
includes the following includesthefollowing tools for individual
localizations: localizations: organs/structures,
* head and neck (on * head and neck (on Automatic Theproposeddevice,theprimarypredicateand
CTimages) CTimages) on-demand and most of the reference devices propose
* thorax/breast (for * thorax/breast (for pre-processing tools segmentation on medical images of different
male/female and on male/female and on for multiple modalitiesusingAI.
CTimages) CTimages) organs/structures,3D
* abdomen (on CT * abdomen (on CT Autornargin, Logical
images and MR images and MR operators
images) images)
* pelvis male (on CT * pelvis male (on CT
images and MR images and MR
images) images)
*pelvisfemale(onCT * pelvis female (on
images) CTimages)
*brain(onCTimages *brain(onCTimages
andMRimages) andMRimages)
View Window and level, Window and level, Window and level, Notstated Notstated
Manipulation pan, zoom, pan, zoom, pan, zoom,
and cross-hairs,slice cross-hairs, slice cross-hairs,slice
Volume navigation. navigation. navigation.
Rendering Maximum, average
Colorrendering,fused Color rendering, and minimum
Theproposeddevicehasthesametoolsasthe
views,galleryviews. fused views, gallery intensity projection
primarypredicate.
views. (MIP,AVG,MinIP),
colorrendering,
multi-planar
reconstruction(MPR),
fused views, gallery
views.
Page13of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
Regions and AI Based AI based AI Based Notstated Notstated
Volumes autocontouring, autocontouring autocontouring,
of Interest Registration based
(ROI) contour projection Registration based Registration based
(re-contouring), contour projection contour projection
Manual ROI (re-contouring) (re-contouring), Both the proposed device and the primary
manipulation and predicate allow AI automatic contouring and
transformation Manual ROI Manual ROI manualcontouring.
(margins, booleans manipulation and manipulation and
operators, transformations transformation
interpolation). (margins, booleans (margins, booleans
operators, operators,
interpolation). interpolation).
Region/volu Intensity and Intensity, Hounsfield Intensity, Hounsfield Notstated Notstated
meof Hounsfieldunits. units, Size units and SUV
The proposed device offers the same kind of
interest Size measurements measurement measurements
region/volumeofinterest
measuremen include 2D and 3D include 2D and 3D Size measurements
measurements and size measurements asthe
tsand measurements measurements include 2D and 3D
primarypredicate.
size (number of slices, (number of slices, measurements
measuremen volumeofastructure, volume of a (number of slices,
ts staticruler) structure, static volumeofastructure,
ruler) staticruler)
Page14of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
DeviceDescription:
The ART-Plan application consists of three key modules:SmartFuse,AnnotateandAdaptBox,
allowing the user to display and visualise 3D multi-modal medical image data. The user may
process, render, review, store, display and distributeDICOM3.0compliantdatasetswithinthe
systemand/oracrosscomputernetworks.
Compared to Ethos Treatment Management, 2.1; Ethos Treatment Planning, 1.1 (primary
predicate),thefollowingadditionalfeaturehasbeenaddedtoART-Planv2.1.0:
● generation of syntheticCTfromMRimages.Thisdoesnotrepresentanadditional
claim as the technological characteristics are the same and it does not raise
different questions of safety and effectiveness. Also, this feature is already
coveredbyreferenceandpreviousversionofthedeviceART-Planv1.10.1.
TheART-PlantechnicalfunctionalitiesclaimedbyTheraPanaceaarethefollowing:
• Proposing automatic solutions to the user, such as an automatic delineation, automatic
multimodal image fusion, etc. towards improving standardization of processes/
performance/reducingusertedious/timeconsuminginvolvement.
• Offering to the user a set of tools to assist semi-automatic delineation, semi-automatic
registration towards modifying/editing manually automatically generated structures and
adding/removing new/undesired structures or imposing user-provided correspondences
constraintsonthefusionofmultimodalimages.
• Presenting to the user a set of visualization methods of the delineated structures, and
registrationfusionmaps.
• Savingthedelineatedstructures/fusionresultsforuseinthedosimetryprocess.
• Enabling rigid and deformable registration of patients images sets tocombineinformation
containedindifferentorsamemodalities.
• Allowing the users to generate, visualize, evaluate and modify pseudo-CT from MRI and
CBCTimages.
Page15of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
• Allowing theuserstogenerate,visualizeandanalyzedoseonimagesofCTmodality(only
withintheAdatpBoxworkflow)
• Presentingtotheusermetricstodefineifthereisaneedforreplanningornot.
ART-Planoffersdeep-learningbasedautomaticsegmentationforthefollowinglocalizations:
● headandneck(onCTimages)
● thorax/breast(formale/femaleandonCTimages)
● abdomen(onCTimagesandMRimages)
● pelvismale(onCTimages,onsynthetic-CTfromCBCTandonMRimages)
● pelvisfemale(onCTimages)
● brain(onCTimagesandMRimages)
ART-Plan offers deep-learning based synthetic CT-generation from MR images for the
followinglocalizations:
● pelvismale
● brain
ART-Plan offers deep-learning based synthetic CT-generation from CBCT images for the
followinglocalizations:
● pelvismale
TechnologicalCharacteristics:
A comparative review of the ART-Plan with the predicate device found that the technology,
mode of operation, and general principles for treatment with this device were substantially
equivalentasthepredicatedevice.
Informationaboutourtrainingdatasetandgeneralizabilityofthemodels:
A method generalizeswelliftheobservedperformanceontrainingandvalidationsetsremains
stable. In the case of strong presence of expert’s annotation variability(thatisnotnecessarily
becauseoferroneousannotationsbutbecauseimagequality/organvisibilitycanbeinterpreted
differently among experts),amethodthatcandemonstratesimilarperformancewithrespectto
agivenmetricontraining,validationandlaterontestingisconsideredtogeneralizewell.
In that process, both the loss function being optimized by the optimization procedure
(stochastic gradient descent) and the dice metric which is the main proxy of segmentation
quality, are monitored over the train and validation sets. If the loss is non-increasing on the
validation set and if the dice metrics follow similar in value trends in both the validation and
training sets, it is considered that the model being trained does not overfit, and henceshould
generalizewell,atleastoninputdomainssimilartoonesinthosesets.
On the contrary, overfittingcanbedetectedwheneverthetraininglosskeepsdecreasingwhile
the validation loss after a while increases. This means that the model is focusing onfeatures
that are specific tothetrainingdataandnotpresentinthevalidationdata.Thisimpliesthatthe
capacity of the model to generalize is poor. In that respect, the independence of the
train/validation/testsetsisfundamental.
We consider that amodelisagoodcandidateforproductionwhenthefollowingconditionsare
met: 1) the loss and dices have reached a plateau on the validation set, 2) there is no
overfitting, i.e. training and validation curves are similar and 3)thelevelofperformanceofthe
dice for the different organs are as good or above the clinical expectations according to well
definedperformancecriteria.
Page16of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
The learning curves of organs may be different depending on the sizes and shapes
(difficulties) ofstructures(organs).Thus,therangeoftestingscores,DiceSimilarityCoefficient
(DSC), may vary. It isimportanttorememberthatsmallerorgansmighthavesmallerDSCand
yet be still clinically relevant and acceptable, as the DSC is a relative metric that is heavily
dependent on the volume of the organ. This is due to the fact that the DSC scores are
normalized from the union of organ volume between the two sets (ground truth, automatic
annotations) and therefore lower DSC could correspond to clinically acceptable values for
small organs, since the proposed contours mighttakejustafeweditionstomakethemusable
for planning, whilst still saving time from the users, i.e. that these contours would be judged
“clinicallyacceptableafterminorcorrections”inaqualitativeevaluation.
Learning curves can have an average DSC and loss function for each epoch (which is an
iteration of training where thewholetrainingdatasethasbeenpassedtothenetwork)overthe
training set and over the validation set. Our curves show that validation and training dataare
very close to each other, reaching convergence after some epochs (depending on the
structure),demonstratingnooverfittingofthetrainingdata.Onceconvergenceisachieved,the
model is considered ready to be tested and clinically validated on a different, yet
representative data set, following a well-established process of validation that has already
beensubmittedtoandclearedbytheFDA.
Some limitations have been identified that correspond either to the sexortheageofpatients.
For instance, for the auto-segmentationmodelfollowinglimitationsaredisclosedtotheuserin
theInstructionForUse(UserManual)basedonthesexofthepatient:
- The Truefisp Pelvis MRI and T2 Elekta Pelvis MRI auto-contouring models only work
onmaleanatomy.
- The patient sex of the patient (dicom tag (0010, 0040)) is taken into account for the
auto-segmentation:
- if the tag is "F" or "M", the sex specific organs (prostate, breast, etc.) are
contouredaccording
tothetag
- ifthetagisemptyor"O":
- ifbatch:nocontourisdelineatedexceptexternalcontour
- if auto segmentation on Annotate: only common contours to the 2
sexesaredelineated
- ifthetagisincorrect,thegeneratedcontoursmaybeinappropriate
Theautomaticcontouring(includingexternalcontour)functionmaygenerateinappropriate
contoursinthefollowingcases:
- Whenthevolumeusedisanimagetakenofachild
- Whenthepatienthasaparticularanatomy.
- When the considered volume is thatofapatientnotpositionedonhisbackatthetime
ofacquisition.
- WhenthevalueenteredinthePatientPositiontag(0018,5100)iserroneous.
- WhentheDICOM-CTcontainsanunusuallyhighnumberofslices.
- When the qualityoftheimagesusedasinputisnotsatisfyingenoughortheresolution
islowsuchasCBCT.Therefore,thecontoursproducedmayhavealowquality.
- When the primary volume is an MRI whose acquisition sequence is not compatible
withtheselectedauto-contouringmodel.
Page17of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
- When the patient is unusually positioned on the image (image not centered on the
patient,headrotatedontheside...)
Onlysomeanatomiesarecoveredbytheautomaticcontouring:
- Automatic contouring on CT images covers all anatomies (Head & Neck, thorax,
breast,abdominalregionandpelvis(M/F)
- Automatic contouring on MR images covers some sequences and anatomies: Brain
T1,AbdoTF(TrueFisp),Pelvis(male)T2,Pelvis(male)TF.
- Automaticcontouringonsynthetic-CTfromCBCTcoverspelvis(male)anatomy.
- In order tosuggestthemostrelevantstructurestotheuser,aCTthatdoesnotinclude
a chiasma but does include a liver, is not considered as Head andNeckcase.Inthat
case,noHeadandNeckstructureswillbeautomaticallysegmented.
All information on the limitations of some models is included in the Instruction For Use (User
Manual)whichismadeavailabletoallusersofthesoftware.
● Summary test statistics or other test results including acceptance criteria or
other information supporting the appropriateness of the characterized
performance:
AcceptancecriteriaforperformanceofART-Planmoduleswereestablishedusingperformance
ranges extracted from benchmarkdevicesandalternativetechnologiesintheliterature.Foran
auto segmentation model to be judged acceptable, every organ included in the model must
pass at least one acceptance criterion with success across the different testings it has been
submittedto.Thesecriteriaareasfollows:
a) TheDiceSimilarityCoefficient(DSC)isequaltoorsuperiortotheacceptancecriteriasetby
theAAPM:DSC(mean)≥0.8.
Or
b) The Dice Similarity Coefficient (DSC) is equal to or superior to inter-expertvariability:DSC
(mean)≥0.54orDSC(mean)≥mean(DSCinter-expert)+5%.
Or
c)Theclinicians’squalitativeevaluationoftheauto-segmentationisconsideredacceptablefor
clinical use withoutmodifications(A)orwithminormodifications/corrections(B)withaA+B%
aboveorequalto85%consideringthefollowingscale:
A:thecontourisacceptableforaclinicalusewithoutanymodification
B:thecontourwouldbeacceptableforclinicaluseafterminormodifications/corrections
C: the contour requires major modifications (e.g. it would be faster for the expert to manually
delineatethestructure)”
FortheSmartFusemodule,theacceptancecriteriaareasfollows:
1) ART-Plan SmartFuse produces an anatomical registration of a source image towards
atargetimageforwhich:
a) Dice Similarity Coefficient (DSC) of the segmented registered and non
registered image is equal to or superior to the acceptance criteria set by the
AAPM:DSC(mean)≥0.81
b) Dice Similarity Coefficient (DSC) of the segmented registered and non
registered image is equal to or superior to a benchmark device:
DSC(mean)≥0.65
c) The clinicians’ qualitative evaluation of the propagated contours
post-registration are considered acceptable for clinical use without
Page18of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
modifications (A) or withminormodifications/corrections(B)withA+B%above
or equal to 85% for deformable and above or equal to 50% for rigid
registrationconsideringthefollowingscale:
i) A:thecontourisacceptableforaclinicalusewithoutanymodification
ii) B: the contour would be acceptable for a clinical use after minor
modifications/corrections
iii) C: the contour requires major modifications (e.g.itwouldbefasterfor
theexperttomanuallydelineatethestructure)
d) The clinicians’ qualitative evaluation oftheoverallregistrationoutputfollowing
clinical protocols to qualitatively assess registration outcomes is considered
acceptable for clinical use with A+B% above or equal to 85% for deformable
and50%forrigidregistrationconsideringthefollowingscale:
i) A:theregistrationexceedstheexpectation
ii) B: the registration meets the expectation (incl. cases for which
additional margin may berequiredorregistrationmightberelaunched
usingdifferentsupportingtools)
iii) C:theregistrationisnotacceptable
2) ART-Plan SmartFuse module produces an anatomical registration of a source image
towardsatargetimageforwhichtheJacobianDeterminantneedtobepositive
3) ART-Plan SmartFuse module produces an anatomical registration of a source image
towards a targetimageforwhichthetargetregistrationerror(TRE)mustbebellowthe
acceptance criteria set by the AAPM (maximum voxel size of the pair of images
involved):TRE<2mm(POPIdatabase)
Forthesynthetic-CTgenerationtoolfromMR,theacceptancecriteriaareasfollows:
a. Amedian2%/2mmgammapassingcriteriaof≥95%
b. Amedian3%/3mmgammapassingcriteriaof≥99.0%
c. A mean dose deviation (synthetic-CT compared to standard CT) of ≤2% in ≥88% of
patients
Forthesynthetic-CTgenerationtoolfromCBCT,theacceptancecriteriaareasfollows:
a. Amedian2%/2mmgammapassingcriteriaof≥92%
b. Amedian3%/3mmgammapassingcriteriaof≥93.57%
c. A mean dose deviation (synthetic-CT compared to standard CT) of ≤2%in≥76.7%of
patients
Forthedoseenginefunction,theacceptancecriteriaareasfollows:
a. DVHormediandosedeviation≤24.4%forLungtissueor≤4.4%forotherorgans
b. amedian2%/2mmgammapassingratedof≥86.3%
c. Amedian3%/3mmgammapassingcriteriaof≥91.75%
● Total number of individual patients images in the reported auto segmentation
toolsandindependenceoftestdataandtrainingdata
Our training, validation andtestcohortsarebuiltfromreal-worldretrospectivedatawhichwere
initially used for treatmentofcancerpatients.Forthestructuresofagivenanatomyforagiven
modality (MR or CT),twonon-overlappingdatasetswereseparated:thetestpatients(number
selected based on thorough literature review and statistical power) and the train data. We
make sure that those sets are non-overlapping and further split the train cases into train and
Page19of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
validation sets and ensure enough train cases for the machine learning models to converge
andachievegoodperformancesofthevalidationset.
We choose the proportion of the trainingdatathatiskeptasvalidationsettobebetween10%
and 25%, depending on the absolute amount of training data. Having more validation data is
important to better assess the robustnessandgeneralizationofthemodelsaslongasenough
data is kept for training. This explains thatthisvalidationproportionmayvaryfromonetaskto
theother.
● Auto-segmentationtool
Sample
%
Size
Training 246226 78
Validation 69147 22
Total 315373 100
● Synthetic-CTfromMRimages
Sample
%
Size
Training 6195 77
Validation 1839 23
Total 8034 100
● Synthetic-CTfromCBCTimages
Sample
%
Size
Training 1467 88
Validation 203 12
Total 1670 100
Table2:Distributionofsamplesbetweentrainingandvalidationdatasets
● Total number of cases and samples images for training in the reported auto
segmentationresults
The total number of patients used for training of auto-segmentation (8950) is lower than the
number of samples (246226). This is linked tothefactthatonepatientcanbeassociatedwith
more images (e.g. CT, MR) and that each image (anatomy) has the delineation of several
structures (OARs and lymph nodes) which increases the number ofsamplesusedfortraining
and validation. The same rationale for the generation of synthetic-CT from CBCT or MR
images.
● Demographicdistributionincludinggender,ageandethnicity
Page20of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
All data used for training of the models have been pseudo-anonymised by the centers
providing data before transfer.Around88%ofthedatausedfortrainingcontaininformationon
gender and age of the patients. In terms of gender, around 44% and 56% of our data (that
contains this information) are from female and male patients, respectively. In comparison, in
2020 according to the Global Cancer Observatory, 48% and 52% of the cancerpatientswere
femaleandmale,respectively.
Intermsofage,ourdatafollowsthesametrendobservedandreportedintheUS(SEERNIH),
UK (Cancer Research UK) and worldwide (Global Cancer Observatory) for cancer incidence
according to age, with more than 95% of the data coming from patients between 20 and 85
years old. Our data has a slight overrepresentation (8% points) for the ages between 54 and
64 years old, at the cost of a slight underrepresentation of patients in the agerangebetween
20-34 (1.5% points) and above 85 (2.1% points) years old. In addition, following the general
global (incl US) trend, our data also depicts a steep rise in the incidence rate fromintheage
group of 55-64 years old, with a median age of 64 years old (as compared to 66 yearsoldin
theUS).
Although this information is not exhaustive, this analysis shows that the demographic
distribution in terms of age and gender of the data used for training and validation of the
models are well aligned with the incidence cancer statistics found for instance in US,UKand
globally. This comes from the fact that real clinical data provided by medical facilities without
any selection criteria (i.e. no discrimination or selection has been applied to the cases
retrieved), leading to the demographicdistributionincludinggenderandageacrossthedatais
representative of the distribution in the clinic and thus of the cancer patient population in
general.
In terms of anatomies, thetrainingdataoverallismadeof16.4%brain,28.1%headandneck,
24.6%thorax,4.4%abdominaland26.4%pelvis.
Anexceptionisnotedforfollowingmodelsthataregender-dependent:
-100%ofpelvisimagesformalepelvismodelforautomaticannotationaremalepatients
-100%ofpelvisimagesforfemalepelvismodelforautomaticannotationarefemalepatients
-100%ofbreastimagesforthebreastautomaticannotationarefemalepatients
- 100 % of pelvis images for automatic synthetic-CT generation from CBCTandMRaremale
patients
Since we use pseudo-anonymized data for training and this data does not include any
information on ethnicity, TheraPanacea is not able to assess the data distribution and
representationintermsofethnicity.
In addition, automatic delineation of the device demonstrated equivalent performances
betweennon-USandUSpopulation.
● Onthe“truthing”anddatacollectionprocess
● Autosegmentation
The contouring guidelines followed to produce the contours were confirmed with the centers
which provided the data. Our truthing process includes a mix of data created by different
delineators (clinical experts) and assessmentofintervariability,groundtruthcontoursprovided
by the centers and validated by a second expert of the center, and qualitative evaluationand
validation of the contours. This processensuresthatthedatausedfortrainingandtestingcan
be considered representative of the delineation practice across centers and is following
internationalguidelines.
Page21of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
● Generationofsynthetic-CT(fromMRorCBCT)
The clinical evaluation as part of the “truthing-process” guidelines followed to produce and
validate the synthetic-CTs were extracted from the literature and confirmed with the centers
which provided the data and helped in the performance evaluation. Our truthing process
includes imaging metrics based comparison between synthetic-CTs and realplanningCTsfor
the same patients. The real planning CTs come from a mix of machinesandcenterstoavoid
any bias. In addition, the evaluation includes a non-inferiority assessment of the capability of
the synthetic-CT to beusedfordosegenerationpurposesascomparedtoaplanningCT.This
process ensures that the data used for training and testing can be consideredrepresentative
of the clinical practice across centers and following the processes outlined and reviewed
throughtheliteraturereview.
● Onclinicalsubgroups,confoundersandequipmentdetails
In general, confounding factors affecting health status present in the dataset could berelated
to patient clinical variables such as age, gender, ethnicity, economicalandeducationallevels.
As shown in “Demographic distribution including gender, age and ethnicity”, our data is
representative of the demographic cancer distribution in terms ofgenderandage.Inaddition,
our models when appropriate (i.e. for gender independent anatomies) are shared across
gender removing any further bias and augmenting substantially training cohorts. To assess
potential subgroup bias in AI models, a fairness methodology is used foreachsubgroup.The
analysis raised no significant concerns about theintroductionofunfairbiasesintheAImodels
foranyoftheidentifiedsubgroups(ageandgender).
Variables like ethnicity, economical and educational status that could be associated with
obesity are further confounding factors that could impact global patient's anatomy and
introduce bias in the performance of the obtained solution. To address this aspect, we have
adopted a strategy that projects a patient's specific anatomy to common, multiple, differentin
size, full-body female and male patient templates, allowing a direct harmonization of data
resulting in potential removal of bias of anatomical diversity across ethnic, economical and
educational groups. Please note that this information (ethnic group, educational/economical
level, etc.) is often not available in the pseudo-anonymised data and therefore performing
statistical tests and increasing thenumberofoperationsallowingtoseparatecorrelationsfrom
causalityisoftenunattainable.
Regarding variables associated with treatment therapeutic and treatment implementation
strategies;wecanimagineimagingdevicesandtreatmentdevicesbeingpotentialconfounding
factors as differences exist among CT and MR scanners manufacturers that could potentially
introduce bias. We have addressed this concern through a statistical analysis of the different
imaging vendors in EU & USA towards the creation of a data training, validation and testing
cohort that globally appropriately representsthemarketshareofthedifferentvendorsallowing
generalization and removing hardware specific bias. In terms of treatment implementation, it
should be noted that differentguidelinesexistanddependingonthetreatmentdevicedifferent
therapeutic constraints and guidelines are applied. This is reflected in our database since
different strategies and constraints are used depending on the choice of treatment (e.g
external radiotherapy vs stereotactic treatment). Our solution, due to its concept of removing
bias through projection to patient template anatomies as well asduetothecomponent-based
approach that is abletoaggregatetrainingdataacrossimagingandtreatmentvendors,isable
to address the maximum set of constraints. Therefore, we do not introduce any bias on the
type oftreatmentthatwillbedelivered(supportinganytypeofclinicallyconventionallyadopted
treatment from manufactures such as Varian, Elekta, Accuray, GE, Siemens, ViewRay & Zap
Page22of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
Surgical), providing direct means for customization of the constraints to be met at the clinical
expert level and offering a representative coverage of all vendors in radiation oncology
world-wide.
Anexceptionisnotedforfollowingmodelsthatarevendor-,machine-orsequence-dependent:
- MR annotation tool for pelvis and abdominal regions were trained on data from a
0.35TMRmachineprovidedbyViewRay
- synthetic-CT generation tool for pelvis was trained on data froma0.35TMRmachine
providedbyViewRay
- synthetic-CT generation tool and annotation tool for MR pelvis was trained on data
from 1.5T Philips (Elekta) for T2 sequences, and might not work on T1-weighted
images
- synthetic-CT from CBCT generation tool for pelvis male was trained on data coming
fromVarianandElektamachines
Page23of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
SummaryofVerificationandValidationActivities
In Table 3, asummaryofPerformanceTestResultsfortheAnnotateModuleofART-Plan(sincethelatest
clearedversionofthesoftwareinv1.10.1)ispresented:
Performancetest Anydifferencesto
Organ Summaryofresults
method/Acceptancecriterion protocol?
1. Duodenum Intervariabilitycomparisonto DICEdiff Samplesize:25
experts inter-expert=1.32%
whichisabovethe
CriterionC Passed minimumdatasample
size
Minsamplesizeforevaluation
method:20
2. Largebowel Intervariabilitycomparisonto DICEdiff Samplesize:25
experts inter-expert=1.19%
whichisabovethe
CriterionC Passed minimumdatasample
size
Minsamplesizeforevaluation
method:20
3. Smallbowel Intervariabilitycomparisonto DICEdiff Samplesize:25
experts inter-expert=2.44%
whichisabovethe
CriterionC Passed minimumdatasample
size
Minsamplesizeforevaluation
method:20
4. Rightlacrimal Qualitativeevaluationbyexperts A+B=100% Samplesize:20
gland
CriterionD Passed whichisabovethe
minimumdatasample
Minsamplesizeforevaluation size
method:15
5. Leftlacrimal Qualitativeevaluationbyexperts A+B=100% Samplesize:20
gland
CriterionD Passed whichisabovethe
minimumdatasample
Minsamplesizeforevaluation size
method:15
6. cervicallymph Qualitativeevaluationbyexperts A+B=97% Samplesize:20
nodesVIA
CriterionD Passed whichisabovethe
minimumdatasample
Minsamplesizeforevaluation size
method:15
7. Cervicallymph Qualitativeevaluationbyexperts A+B=100% Samplesize:20
Page24of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
nodesVIB
CriterionD Passed whichisabovethe
minimumdatasample
Minsamplesizeforevaluation size
method:15
8. Pharyngeal Qualitativeevaluationbyexperts A+B=100% Samplesize:20
constrictor
muscle CriterionD Passed whichisabovethe
minimumdatasample
Minsamplesizeforevaluation size
method:15
9. Analcanal Qualitativeevaluationbyexperts A+B=98.68% Samplesize:38
CriterionD Passed whichisabovethe
minimumdatasample
Minsamplesizeforevaluation size
method:15
10. Bladder Qualitativeevaluationbyexperts A+B=93.42% Samplesize:38
CriterionD Passed whichisabovethe
minimumdatasample
Minsamplesizeforevaluation size
method:15
11. Leftfemoral Qualitativeevaluationbyexperts A+B=100% Samplesize:38
head
CriterionD Passed whichisabovethe
minimumdatasample
Minsamplesizeforevaluation size
method:15
12. Rightfemoral Qualitativeevaluationbyexperts A+B=100% Samplesize:38
head
CriterionD Passed whichisabovethe
minimumdatasample
Minsamplesizeforevaluation size
method:15
13. Penilebulb Qualitativeevaluationbyexperts A+B=96.05% Samplesize:38
CriterionD Passed whichisabovethe
minimumdatasample
Minsamplesizeforevaluation size
method:15
14. Prostate Qualitativeevaluationbyexperts A+B=92.10% Samplesize:38
CriterionD Passed whichisabovethe
minimumdatasample
Minsamplesizeforevaluation size
method:15
15. Rectum Qualitativeevaluationbyexperts A+B=100% Samplesize:38
Page25of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
CriterionD passed whichisabovethe
minimumdatasample
Minsamplesizeforevaluation size
method:15
16. Seminalvesicle Qualitativeevaluationbyexperts A+B=94.59% Samplesize:37
CriterionD Passed whichisabovethe
minimumdatasample
Minsamplesizeforevaluation size
method:15
17. Sigmoid Qualitativeevaluationbyexperts A+B=98.68% Samplesize:38
CriterionD Passed whichisabovethe
minimumdatasample
Minsamplesizeforevaluation size
method:15
In Table 4, a summary of Performance Test Results for the SmartFuse module of ART-Plan (since the
latestclearedversionofthesoftwareinv1.10.1)ispresented:
Clinicaluse Performancetest Summaryofresults Anydifferencesto
method/Acceptancecriterion protocol?
1. tCBCT-sCT Qualitativeevaluationbyexperts Rigid:A+B%=95.56% Samplesize:45
Deformable:
Criterion1D A+B%=97.78% whichisabovethe
minimumdatasample
Minsamplesizeforevaluation Passed size
method:15
2. tsynthetic-CT- Qualitativeevaluationof Deformable: Samplesize:30
sCT propagatedcontoursbyexperts Target:
A+B%=94.06% whichisabovethe
Criterion1C minimumdatasample
Passed size
Minsamplesizeforevaluation
method:17
3. tCT-sSCT Qualitativeevaluationbyexperts rigid:A+B%=70.37% Samplesize:27
Criterion1D Passed whichisabovethe
minimumdatasample
Minsamplesizeforevaluation size
method:17
In Table 5, a summary of Performance Test Results for the AdaptBox module of ART-Plan (since the
latestclearedversionofthesoftwareinv1.10.1)ispresented:
Page26of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
Criteria Performancetest Summaryofresults Anydifferencesto
method/Acceptancecriterion protocol?
Synthetic-CTfromCBCT
Gammaindex CriteriaA&B 2%/2mm=98.85 Samplesize:20
3%/3mm=99.43
2%/2mm Minsamplesizeforevaluation whichisabovethe
3%/3mm method:17 Passed minimumdatasample
size
DVHparameters CriterionC DVHparameters< Samplesize:20
(PTV) 0.199%in100%ofthe
Minsamplesizeforevaluation cases whichisabovethe
method:17 minimumdatasample
Passed size
Doseengine
Gammaindex CriteriaB&C 2%/2mm=97.22% Samplesize:272total
3%/3mm=99.50% Brain:42
2%/2mm Minsamplesizeforevaluation H&N:70
3%/3mm method:NAinthestateoftheart Passed Chest:44
Breast:26
Pelvis90
DVHparameters CriteriaA DVHparameters< Samplesize:272total
(PTV) 1.29% Brain:42
Minsamplesizeforevaluation H&N:70
method:NAinthestateoftheart Passed Chest:44
Breast:26
Pelvis90
DVHparameters CriteriaA DVHparameters< Samplesize:272total
(OARs) 3.9% Brain:42
Minsamplesizeforevaluation H&N:70
method:NAinthestateoftheart Passed Chest:44
Breast:26
Pelvis90
Page27of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
Non-ClinicalTests(Performance/PhysicalData):
In Table 6, testing based on which ART-Plan v2.1.0 (since the latest cleared version of the
softwareinv1.10.1)wasevaluatedforitssafetyandeffectivenessarepresented:
TestName TestDescription/Results Results
This document is intended to document the usability test
UsabilityReport results for the ART-Plan v2.1.0 for compliance with IEC
Passed
(V2.1.0) 62366-1:2015+AMD1:2020 - Medical devices -
Applicationofusabilityengineeringtomedicaldevices.
Usabilityfile-ART-USR-13 The ART-Plan was assessed with regards to usabilityfor
Passed
(V2.1.0) compliancewitheachsectionofIEC62366.
This table shows that European medical physicists who
have participated in the evaluation have at least an
Usability-Testersqualification
equivalent expertise level compared to a junior US N/A
(V2.1.0)
medical physicist (MP), and responsibilities in the
radiotherapyclinicalworkflowareequivalent.
A literature review is performed to establish acceptance
criteria for performance of ART-Plan modules using
performance ranges observed from benchmark devices
LiteratureReviewand
and alternative technologies in the literature. All
PerformanceCriteria
measures of performance that were established in this N/A
ExtractionReportforART-Plan
document were supported by clinical evidence. It was
(V2.1.0)
also demonstrated, from the clinical data, that ART-Plan
has a clear clinical relevance in accordance with the
clinicalstateoftheart.
The document summarises all performance tests that
have been performed since the last FDA approved
ART-Planperformancetesting version (1.6.1). It also shows which criteria have been
-Overview met in each test for all modules of ART-Plan. It Passed
(V1.10.1-2.1.0) demonstrates that all modules of ART-Plan pass at least
one performance acceptance criterion and hence are
clinicallyacceptableforrelease.
The literature review was performed to estimate the
appropriate sample size of the testing data set towards
Pilotstudyforsamplesize
demonstrating the performance of theimageregistration,
estimation-literaturereview N/A
segmentation and synthetic-CT generation solutions on
(V2.1.0)
the basis of the most recent and most relevant scientific
literature.
The study was developed to cover the major clinical use
cases in which fusions are used in the radiotherapy
workflow and split into as many sub-studies as clinical
Qualitative&Quantitative
use cases of fusion in radiotherapy workflow.Theresults
validationoffusion Passed
show that both types of fusion algorithms (Rigid &
performances(V2.1.0)
Deformable) in SmartFuse pass theperformedtests,and
provide valid results for further clinical use in
radiotherapy.
Protocolforqualitative& This study evaluated the quality of the rigid and the
quantitativevalidationoffusion deformable fusion algorithms of the SmartFuse module
performancesfor forreplanificationofCT-basedtreatments. Passed
tCBCT_sCT_replanning
modality(V2.0.0)
Page28of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
Protocolforqualitative& This study evaluated the quality of the rigid and the
quantitativevalidationoffusion deformable fusion algorithms of the SmartFuse module
performances for forreplanificationofCT-basedtreatments. Passed
tsynthetic-CT_sCT_replanning
modality(V2.1.0)
Protocolforqualitative& This study evaluated the quality of the rigid and the
quantitativevalidationoffusion deformable fusion algorithms of the SmartFuse module
performances for forreplanificationofCT-basedtreatments. Passed
tCT_ssynthetic-CT_replanning
modality(V2.1.0)
Thepurposeofthisdocumentistodescribeallthetesting
protocols and testing results for validating the
performanceoftheAnnotatemodule.
To this aim, this document gathers information of all the
different testing conducted on Annotate for the CT, MR
and synthetic-CT from CBCT autosegmentation
algorithmsforv2.1.0:
● qualitative evaluation for autosegmentation
performance - pelvis male organs on
synthetic-CTfromCBCT-seesection18.13
● autosegmentation performances against
StudyProtocolandReport inter-expert variability - bowel loopstructureson
Annotate Performances CT -seesection18.14 Passed
Summary(V2.1.0) ● qualitative evaluation for autosegmentation
performance - H&N lymph nodes (CT) - see
section18.15
● Non regression testing for integration in
ART-Plan v1.11.0 (CT and MR models) - see
section18.7
● Non regression testing for integration in
ART-Plan v2.1.0 (CT and MR models) - see
section18.16
Since all organs added in v.2.1.0 of Annotate have
passed at least onetestandmetatleastoneacceptance
criteria,allorganshavebeenreleased.
This test demonstrates that the module Annotate
StudyProtocolandReport
provides acceptablecontoursfortheorgansevaluatedon
Qualitative Validation of
synthetic-CT from CBCT images of patients. All organs
AnnotateinART-Planforpelvis Passed
that have passed the acceptance criterion of reaching a
male organs on synthetic-CT
percentage of at least 85% of A or B (qualitative
fromCBCT(V2.1.0)
evaluation)havebeenreleasedinv.2.1.0.
This test demonstrates that the module Annotate
Study Protocol and Report- provides clinically acceptable (compared to inter-expert
Autosegmentation variability) for bowel loops structure. All organsthathave
performances against passed theacceptancecriterionofreachingapercentage Passed
inter-expert variability - bowel of a DSC(mean)≥ 0.8 or DSC(mean)≥0.54) or
loopstructures(V2.1.0) DSC(mean)≥mean(DSC inter-expert)+5% relative error
(quantitativeevaluation)havebeenreleasedinv.2.1.0.
This test demonstrates that the module Annotate
StudyProtocolandReport provides acceptablecontoursfortheorgansevaluatedon
Qualitative Validation of CT images of patients. All organs that have passed the
Passed
Annotate in ART-Plan for H&N acceptance criterion of reaching a percentage of at least
lymphnodes (V2.1.0) 85%ofAorB(qualitativeevaluation)havebeenreleased
inv.2.1.0.
Page29of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
This test demonstrates equivalence between the version
v.2.1.0 and v.2.0.0 of the auto-segmentation models for
Autosegmentationregression
all structures and showsthattheupdatedmodelsprovide
testforintegrationinART-Plan Passed
clinically acceptable contours. All organs passed the
(V2.1.0)
defined criteria, and were hence accepted for release in
thev.2.1.0.
The evaluation demonstrated the dose calculation
Studyprotocolandreport
accuracy by carrying out measurements on a Linac and
Dose engine measurements Passed
comparing the results with thedoseenginegivenvarious
validation (V2.1.0)
metricsandacceptancecriteria.
The evaluation demonstrated the non-inferiority of the
Studyprotocolandreport
dose engine function of the AdaptBoxmoduleintermsof
Dose engine clinical validation Passed
dosimetric measures compared to other commercially
(V2.1.0)
availabledoseengines.
Studyprotocolandreport The evaluation demonstrated the non-inferiority of the
Dose engine performance dose engine function of the AdaptBoxmoduleintermsof
Passed
against reference devices dosimetricmeasurescomparedtoFDAcleareddevices.
(V2.1.0)
The evaluation demonstrated the non-inferiority of using
synthetic-CT from CBCT for treatment replanning in
Studyprotocolandreport
terms of dosimetric measures as compared to CT-based
Clinical validation of
treatment replanning. Our synthetic-CT from CBCT for Passed
synthetic-CTs from CBCT
pelvis has shown to produce results that meet the
(V2.1.0)
acceptance criteria derived from clinical practice and
literaturereview.
Study protocol and report The evaluation demonstrated the non-inferiority of the
Performance against Ethos AdaptBoxmodulecomparedtoaFDAcleareddevice. Passed
(Varian)(V2.1.0)
Studyprotocolandreport The evaluation demonstrated the equivalent
Performance on US data performancesbetweennon-USandUSpopulation. Passed
(V2.1.0)
StudyProtocolandReportfor The evaluation demonstrated the anatomical and
CBCT-based synthetic-CT geometricalofthesynthetic-CtgeneratedfromCBCT Passed
evaluation(V2.1.0)
AI-powered decision making This study demonstrated that AdaptBox is an effective
process for RT re-planning tool to assist physicians and physicists in the decision Passed
(V2.1.0) makingprocessforre-planning
SystemVerificationand The system verification and validation testing was
Passed
ValidationTesting(V2.1.0) performedtoverifythesoftwareoftheART-Plan.
SoftwareVerificationandValidationTesting
Software verification and validation testing were conducted, and documentationwasprovided
as recommended by FDA’s Guidance forIndustryandFDAStaff,“GuidancefortheContentof
PremarketSubmissionsforSoftwareContainedinMedicalDevices.”
The software for this device was considered as a “major” level of concern, since a failure or
latent design flaw could directly result in death or serious injury to the patient or a failure or
provide diagnostic information that directly drives a decision regarding treatment or therapy,
suchthatifmisapplieditcouldresultinseriousinjuryordeath.
AnimalStudies
Page30of31TheraPanacea SAS
Traditional 510(k)
ART-Plan
Noanimalstudieswereconductedaspartofsubmissiontoprovesubstantialequivalence.
ClinicalStudies
Noclinicalstudieswereconductedaspartofsubmissiontoprovesubstantialequivalence.
SafetyandEffectiveness/Conclusion:
Based on the information presentedinthese510(k)premarketnotificationstheTheraPanacea
ART-Plan is considered substantially equivalent. The TheraPanacea ART-Plan is as safeand
effectiveasthecurrentlymarketedpredicatedevice.
Based on testing and comparison with the predicate devices, TheraPanacea ART-Plan
indicated no adverse indications or results. It is our determination that the TheraPanacea
ART-Plan performs within its design specifications and is substantially equivalent to the
predicatedevice.
Page31of31