September 27, 2023
Volta Medical
℅ Kristin Duggan
Partner
Hogan Lovells US LPP
555 13th St. NW
Washington, District of Columbia 20004
Re: K232616
Trade/Device Name: Volta AF-Xplorer
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 870.1425
Regulation Name: Programmable Diagnostic Computer
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: DQK
Dated: August 28, 2023
Received: August 28, 2023
Dear Kristin Duggan:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.06.04
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK232616 - Kristin Duggan Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).K232616 - Kristin Duggan Page 3
Sincerely,
Hetal B. Odobasic -S
for
Aneesh Deoras
Assistant Director
Division of Cardiac Electrophysiology,
Diagnostics and Monitoring Devices
Office of Cardiovascular Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureIndications for Use Statement
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 06/30/2023
Indications for Use See PRA Statement on last page
510(k) Number (if known)
K232616
Device Name
Volta AF-Xplorer
Indications for Use (Describe)
The Volta AF-Xplorer assists operators in the real-time manual or automatic annotation of 3D
anatomical and electrical maps of human atria for the presence of multipolar intra-cardiac atrial
electrograms exhibiting spatiotemporal dispersion during atrial fibrillation or atrial tachycardia.
The clinical significance of utilizing the Volta AF-Xplorer software to help identify areas with intra-
cardiac atrial electrograms exhibiting spatiotemporal dispersion for catheter ablation of atrial
arrhythmias, such as atrial fibrillation, has not been established by clinical investigations.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
(cid:1800)Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) (cid:1798)Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C
PLEASE DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS LINE – CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
FOR FDA USE ONLY
Concurrence of Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) (Signature)
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response,
including the time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data
needed and complete and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this
burden estimate or any other aspect of this information collection, including suggestions for
reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human
Services Food and Drug
Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA)
Staff PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (6/20) Page 1 of 1FDA PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF
72
072K232616
510(k) SUMMARY
VOLTA MEDICAL’s Volta AF-Xplorer
Submitter
Volta Medical
65 Avenue Jules Cantini
13006 Marseille
France
Phone: +33 7 68 02 54 99
Contact Person: Paola MILPIED
Date Prepared: August 28, 2023
Name of Device: VoltaAF-Xplorer
Common or Usual Name: Cardiac Mapping System
Classification Name: Programmable Diagnostic Computer
Regulatory Class: 21 C.F.R § 870.1425
Product Code: DQK
Primary Predicate Device
Volta Medical, VX1+ (K223516)
Predicate Device
Volta Medical, VX1 (K201298)
Purpose of the Special 510(k) notice
The Volta AF-Xplorer is a modification to the VX1+ (K223516) device which incorporates the pre-
processing from the VX1 (K201298).
Intended Use / Indications for Use
The Volta AF-Xplorer assists operators in the real-time manual or automatic annotation of 3D
anatomical and electrical maps of human atria for the presence of multipolar intra-cardiac atrial
electrograms exhibiting spatiotemporal dispersion during atrial fibrillation or atrial tachycardia.
The clinical significance of utilizing the Volta AF-Xplorer software to help identify areas with intra-
cardiac atrial electrograms exhibiting spatiotemporal dispersion for catheter ablation of atrial
arrhythmias, such as atrial fibrillation, has not been established by clinical investigations.
61
Page 1 of 7
061K232616
Device Description
The Volta AF-Xplorer is a machine and deep learning based-algorithm designed to assist operators in
the real-time manual or automatic annotation of 3D anatomical and electrical maps of the human heart
for the presence of electrograms exhibiting spatio-temporal dispersion, i.e., dispersed electrograms.
The Volta AF-Xplorer device is a non-sterile reusable medical device, composed of a computing
platform and a software application. Volta AF-Xplorer works with all existing 510(k)-cleared catheters
that meet specific dimension requirements and with one of the three specific data acquisition systems:
- two compatible EP recording systems (identical to VX1 and VX1+ (Volta Medical (K201298,
K223516)): the LabSystem Pro EP Recording System (Boston Scientific) (K141185) or the
MacLab CardioLabEP Recording System (General Electric) (K130626),
- a 3D mapping system (newcompared to VX1 and identical to VX1+): EnSite X3D mapping system
(Abbott) (K221213).
A connection cable is used to connect the corresponding data acquisition system to the Volta AF-
Xplorer system, depending on the type of communication used:
- Unidirectional analog communication with the EP recording systems via a custom-made cable
(two diferent variants: DSUB, Octopus) and an Advantech PCI-1713U analog-to-digital converter,
which acquires analog data, digitizes it, and transmits the digital signals to the computer that hosts
the Volta AF-Xplorersoftware.
- Bidirectional digital communication with the EnSite 3D mapping system via an ethernet cable (four
different lengths: 20,10, 5 or 2m) which transmits the digital signals directly to the computer.
The computer and its attached display are located outside the sterile operating room area. The Volta
AF-Xplorer software analyzes the patient’s electrograms to cue operators in real-time to intra-cardiac
electrograms of interest for atrial regions harboring dispersed electrograms as well as a cycle length
estimation from electrograms recorded with the mapping and the coronary sinus catheters. The
results of the analysis are graphically presented on the attached computer display and/or on a
secondary medical screen or on an operating room widescreen. The identified regions of interest are
either manually (all configurations) or automatically (only available in digital bidirectional
communication with the EnSite X 3D mapping system) tagged in the corresponding 3D mapping
system.
Technological Characteristics
The Volta AF-Xplorer device is a modified device manufactured by Volta Medical, based on the same
concept (identification of electrograms dispersion) than predicates VX1+ and VX1.
Volta AF-Xplorer, VX1+ and VX1 are software programs that work with standard electrophysiology
catheters to aid in mapping the heart. All three devices aid operators by assisting in annotating
complex electrical maps of the heart, and process and output information via a computer and display
that are operated by use of a keyboard / mouse. Volta AF-Xplorer, VX1+ and VX1 have the same input
(intra-cardiac multipolar signals) and the same output (associated dispersion), with the addition of the
3D position of the corresponding electrodes available in Volta AF-Xplorer and VX1+.
62
Page 2 of 7
062K232616
Volta AF-Xplorer, VX1+ and VX1 support Electrophysiologists in the manual annotation of dispersed
areas using a unidirectional analog communication. Both Volta AF-Xplorer and VX1+ have the ability
to connect to a specific 3D mapping system through a bidirectional digital communication, which
enables the operator to use the automatic tagging function.
The Volta AF-Xplorer indications for use are identical to the VX1+ and the VX1. The Volta AF-Xplorer
displays an analysis of dispersed electrograms, just as VX1+ and VX1 and therefore, the intended use
of the Volta AF-Xplorer and the VX1+ and the VX1 are identical.
63
Page 3 of 7
063Volta Medical Volta Medical Volta Medical
Volta AF-Xplorer VX1+ VX1
(subject) (K223516) (K201298)
Regulation 21 C.F.R.§870.1425 21 C.F.R.§870.1425 21 C.F.R.§870.1425
Programmable Diagnostic Computer Programmable Diagnostic Programmable Diagnostic Computer
Classification Name
Computer
Product Code DQK DQK DQK
The Volta AF-Xplorer assists operators The VX1+ assists operators in the The VX1 assists operators in the real-time
in the real-time manual or automatic real-time manual or automatic manual annotation of 3D anatomical and
annotation of 3D anatomical and annotation of 3D anatomical and electrical maps of human atria for the
electrical maps of human atria for the electrical maps of human atria for presence of multipolar intra-cardiac atrial
presence of multipolar intra-cardiac the presence of multipolar intra- electrograms exhibiting spatiotemporal
atrial electrograms exhibiting cardiac atrial electrograms dispersion during atrial fibrillation or atrial
spatiotemporal dispersion during atrial exhibiting spatiotemporal dispersion tachycardia.
fibrillation or atrial tachycardia. during atrial fibrillationor atrial
tachycardia. The clinical significance of utilizing the VX1
Indications for Use The clinical significance of utilizing the software to help identify areas with intra-
Volta AF-Xplorer software to help The clinical significance of utilizing cardiac atrial electrograms exhibiting
identify areas with intra-cardiac atrial the VX1+ software to help identify spatiotemporal dispersion for catheter
electrograms exhibiting spatiotemporal areas with intra-cardiac atrial ablation of atrial arrhythmias, such as atrial
dispersion for catheter ablation of atrial electrograms exhibiting fibrillation, has not been established by
arrhythmias, such as atrial fibrillation, spatiotemporal dispersion for clinical investigations.
has not been established by clinical catheter ablation of atrial
investigations. arrhythmias, such as atrial
fibrillation, has not been established
by clinical investigations.
Signal processing basedatrial Signal processing basedatrial Signal processing basedatrial mapping
System Type
mapping system mapping system system
Displays and analyzes electricalmaps Displays and analyzes electrical Displays and analyzes electricalmaps
such as intra-cardiac electrograms in maps such as intra-cardiac such as intra-cardiac electrograms in real-
PrimaryFeature
real-timeusingmachine learning and electrograms in real-timeusing timeusingmachine learning andsignal
signal processingtechniques machine learning andsignal processingtechniques
processingtechniques
64
064
Page
4
of
7
K232616Volta Medical Volta Medical Volta Medical
Volta AF-Xplorer VX1+ VX1
(subject) (K223516) (K201298)
Electroanatomic location is performed Electroanatomic location is Electroanatomic location is performed by
by another commercially available performed by another commercially another commercially available navigation
navigation system. available navigation system. system.
3D Location
In bidirectional digital communication, In bidirectional digital
Technology
3D Location is shared by the 3D communication, 3D Location is
Mapping System with Volta AF- shared by the 3D Mapping System
Xplorer. with VX1+.
(cid:120) LabSystem Pro EPRecording (cid:120) LabSystem Pro EP Recording (cid:120) LabSystem Pro EP Recording
System (Boston Scientific) System (Boston Scientific) System (Boston Scientific)
Compatible
(cid:120) CardioLab EP Recording System (cid:120) CardioLab EP Recording (cid:120) CardioLab EP Recording System (GE)
Acquisition
(GE) System (GE)
Systems
(cid:120) EnSite X 3D Mapping System (cid:120) EnSite X 3D Mapping System
(Abbott) (Abbott)
Compatible Any compatible mapping and ablation Any compatible mapping and Any compatible mapping and ablation
Catheters catheter ablation catheter catheter
Display(s) Color monitor Color monitor Color monitor
Yes, duplicate display on a secondary Yes, duplicate display on a Yes, duplicate display on a secondary
Multi-Display
medical screen or on an operating secondary medical screen or on an medical screen or on an operating room
Support
room widescreen operating room widescreen widescreen
Control Standard keyboard/mouse Standard keyboard/mouse Standard keyboard/mouse
Display Timing Real-time Real-time Real-time
Analog or digitalIntra-cardiac signals Analog or digitalIntra-cardiac Analog Intra-cardiac signals
InputsRequired In digital mode, 3D locations of signals
corresponding electrodes bipoles In digital mode, 3D locations of
corresponding electrodes bipoles
Presence or absence of electrogram Presence or absence of Presence or absence of electrogram
dispersion at each electrode bipole electrogram dispersion at each dispersion at each electrode bipole under
Output under consideration electrode bipole under consideration
In digital mode, 3D locations of consideration
corresponding electrodes bipoles
65
065
Page
5
of
7
K232616Volta Medical Volta Medical Volta Medical
Volta AF-Xplorer VX1+ VX1
(subject) (K223516) (K201298)
In digital mode, 3D locations of Computedvalues of mapping and
Computed values of mapping and corresponding electrodes bipoles reference cycle length
reference cycle length
Computed values of mapping and
reference cycle length
Duration of 1.5 Seconds 1.5 Seconds 1.5 Seconds
Electrogram
Recordings
The system generates color coded The system generates color coded The system generates colorcoded
symbol(s) that indicates to the operator symbol(s) that indicates to the symbol(s) that indicates to the operator
that the area under investigation is one operator that the area under that the area under investigation is one
exhibiting dispersion investigation is one exhibiting exhibiting dispersion
In bidirectional digital communication, dispersion
Ouput Display validated dispersion area can also be In bidirectional digital
automatically displayed in the 3D communication, validated
mapping system as tags in the 3D dispersion area can also be
atrial shell automatically displayed in the 3D
mapping system as tags in the 3D
atrial shell
SignalInformation Acquired patient signals, including Acquired patient signals, including Acquired patient signals, includingbody
Displayed body surface ECG and intra-cardiac body surface ECG and intra-cardiac surface ECG and intra-cardiacEGMs.
EGMs. EGMs.
Computer with Intel Core i7-7700 CPU Computer with Intel Core i7-7700 Computer with Intel Core i5-6500 CPU
(8MB Cache, up to 4.20 GHz,RAM 32 CPU (8MB Cache, up to 4.20 GHz, (6MB Cache, up to 3.60 GHz, RAM 32
GB), RAM 32 GB), GB),
Computing Platform with integrated analog/digital converter with integrated analog/digital with integrated analog/digital converter PCI
PCI card and TPM (Trusted Platform converter PCI card and TPM card
Module) (Trusted Platform Module) Windows 10 or higher OS
Debian-based Linux OS Debian-based Linux OS
66
066
Page
6
of
7
K232616Volta Medical Volta Medical Volta Medical
Volta AF-Xplorer VX1+ VX1
(subject) (K223516) (K201298)
Computing platform, proprietary Computing platform, proprietary Computing platform, proprietary software
Hardware Design software algorithm, monitor, software algorithm, monitor, algorithm, monitor, mouse/keyboard,
and Materials mouse/keyboard, custom-made analog mouse/keyboard, custom-made custom-made analog connection cable,
connection cable, ethernet cable, analog connection cable, ethernet acquisition system
acquisition system cable, acquisition system
The hardware and software differences to the subject device do not introduce new questions of safety or effectiveness.
Performance Data
Software design verification was performed on the subject Volta AF-Xplorer device with the software that included the same pre-processing
as cleared in VX1 and the same post-processing specifications as cleared in VX1+. The testing and acceptance criteria are the same as
those in the predicate VX1+ and VX1 devices. Bench testing was previously conducted in the VX1+ (K223516) and VX1 (K201298) to
demonstrate rigorous software verification and validation testing including unitary testing of the main algorithm modules. The processing was
evaluated and demonstrated equivalent performance with the acceptance criteria from the VX1+ and VX1 studies.
Conclusions
The Volta AF-Xplorer is as safe and effective as theVX1+ and the VX1. The Volta AF-Xplorer has the same intended uses and same
indications, and substantially similar technological characteristics, and principles of operation as its predicate devices VX1+ and VX1. The
modification to the same pre-processing specification as cleared in VX1 and the same post-processing specifications as cleared in VX1+
does not alter the intended use of the device as an electrophysiological evaluation tool and do not affect its safety and effectiveness when
used as labeled. Performance data, as described above, demonstrate that the Volta AF-Xplorer device is as safe and effective as the
VX1+ and the VX1. Thus, theVolta AF-Xplorer device is substantially equivalent.
67
067
Page
7
of
7
K232616