December 13, 2023
Tyto Care Ltd.
Stella Perry
RA&QA Director
14 Beni Gaon Street
Natanya, 4250803
Israel
Re: K232237
Trade/Device Name: Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 868.1900
Regulation Name: Diagnostic Pulmonary-Function Interpretation Calculator
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: PHZ
Dated: November 13, 2023
Received: November 14, 2023
Dear Stella Perry:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"K232237 - Stella Perry Page 2
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Rachana Visaria -S
Rachana Visaria, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
DHT1C: Division of Sleep Disordered
Breathing, Respiratory and
Anesthesia Devices
OHT1: Office of Ophthalmic, Anesthesia,
Respiratory, ENT and Dental DevicesK232237 - Stella Perry Page 3
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 06/30/2023
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K232237
Device Name
Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection
Indications for Use (Describe)
The Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection is an over-the-counter artificial intelligence (AI) enabled decision support
software system used in the evaluation of lung sounds in adults and pediatrics (2 years and older). It automatically
analyzes the acoustic signal of the lung as recorded by the FDA cleared compatible Tyto Stethoscope and identifies
recordings where a specific abnormal lung sound suggestive of “Wheeze” is suspected. It is not intended to detect other
abnormal or normal lung sounds. A licensed health care professional’s advice is required to understand the meaning of the
Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection result. Healthcare providers should consider the device result in conjunction with
recording and other relevant patient data.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (6/20) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(k) Summary
Submitter Name and Tyto Care Ltd.
Address: 14 Beni Gaon Street Netanya, Israel,
4250803
Contact Person: Stella Raizelman Perry RA & QA
Director
Email: stellar@tytocare.com
Phone Number: +972 72-2210750
Fax Number: +972 72-2210752
Establishment 3012678246
Registration
Number:
Date Prepared: December 13, 2023
Device Trade Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection
Name(s):
Device Common Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection
Name:
Classification: Name: Diagnostic pulmonary-function interpretation
calculator
Product code: PHZ
Regulation No: 21 CFR 868.1900
Class: II
Panel: Anesthesiology
Predicate Device(s):
Device name 510(k) No. Date of Clearance
TytoCare Lung Sounds K221614 January 26, 2023
Analyzer
Reference Device(s):
Device name 510(k) No. Date of Clearance
eMurmur Heart AI K220766 May 31, 2022
1Intended use / indication for use statement
The Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection is an over-the-counter artificial intelligence (AI)
enabled decision support software system used in the evaluation of lung sounds in adults and
pediatrics (2 years and older). It automatically analyzes the acoustic signal of the lung as
recorded by the FDA cleared compatible Tyto Stethoscope and identifies recordings where a
specific abnormal lung sound suggestive of “Wheeze” is suspected. It is not intended to detect
other abnormal or normal lung sounds. A licensed health care professional’s advice is required
to understand the meaning of the Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection result. Healthcare
providers should consider the device result in conjunction with recording and other relevant
patient data.
Device description
The Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection is a web-based (AI) enabled software system designed
to aid in the clinical assessment of lungs auscultation sound data by analyzing recorded lung
sounds to determine whether a Wheeze is detected within the recorded sound data.
The Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection Software is intended to process recordings from the
FDA-cleared compatible Tyto Stethoscope (Tyto Stethoscope, K181612). The acquisition of the
acoustic data (recordings) is carried out by a professional user in a clinical environment or
by a lay- user in a non-medical environment, in compliance with the labeling of the Tyto
Stethoscope. The system is composed of the following sub-systems:
1. The Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection Application Server (APS) communicates
with the Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection Algorithm Server (ALS) and
implements an application programming interface (API) for communication with
the telehealth server.
2. The Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection Algorithm Server (ALS) receives an
audio file as input and returns an analysis result of positive or negative regarding
whether a wheeze was detected as output.
3. The Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection Web Server (WBS) provides a graphic
indication whether a wheeze is detected in the recording. It can be utilized both in
patient and clinician side.
All the software subsystems (servers and storage) are hosted in the cloud and communicate
through IP network.
2Substantial Equivalence to Predicate Devices
The following table compares the Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection to the predicate device.
Table 1. Substantial Equivalence Summary
Device Predicate device Reference device Summary
Device Name Tyto Insights for Wheeze TytoCare Lungs Sounds eMurmur Heart AI NA
Detection Analyzer
Device Tyto Care Ltd. Tyto Care Ltd. CSD Labs GmbH NA
Manufacturer
510(k) Number K232237 K221614 K220766 NA
Device Class Class II Class II Class II Same as the predicate device.
Review Panel Anesthesiology Anesthesiology Cardiology Same as the predicate device.
Product code PHZ PHZ DQD, DQC Same as the predicate device.
Regulation number 21 CFR 868.1900 21 CFR 868.1900 21 CFR 870.1875 Same as the predicate device.
Classification Name Diagnostic pulmonary- Diagnostic pulmonary- Electronic Stethoscope; Same as the predicate device.
function interpretation function interpretation Phonocardiograph;
calculator, calculator,
Stethoscope Stethoscope
3Intended use and The “Tyto Insights for The TytoCare Lung The ’eMurmur Heart AI’ Same as the predicate device.
indication for use Wheeze Detection” is an Sounds Analyzer is an software is a decision
over-the-counter artificial support system in the
over-the-counter decision
intelligence (AI) enabled evaluation of recorded
support software system
decision support software patient heart sounds. The
used in the evaluation of
system used in the automated analysis by
lung sounds in adults and
evaluation of lung sounds eMurmur Heart AI
in adults and pediatrics (2 children (2 years and identifies specific heart
years and older). It older). It automatically sounds that may be present,
automatically analyzes the analyzes the acoustic including S1, S2,
acoustic signal of the lung physiological heart
signal of the lung as
as recorded by the FDA murmurs, pathological
recorded by the FDA
cleared compatible Tyto heart murmurs and the
cleared compatible Tyto
Stethoscope and identifies absence of a heart murmur.
Stethoscope and identifies
recordings where a eMurmur Heart AI is
specific abnormal lung recordings where a indicated for use in a
sound suggestive of specific abnormal lung setting where auscultation
“Wheeze” is suspected. It sound suggestive of would typically be
is not intended to detect performed by a healthcare
“Wheeze”, is suspected.
other abnormal or normal provider. It is not intended
It is not intended to detect
lung sounds. A licensed as a sole means of
other abnormal or normal
health care professional’s diagnosis. The heart sound
advice is required to lung sounds. A licensed interpretations offered by
understand the meaning health care professional’s eMurmur Heart AI are only
of the Tyto Insights for advice is required to significant when
Wheeze Detection result. understand the meaning considered in conjunction
Healthcare providers with healthcare provider
of the TytoCare Lung
should consider the over-read and including all
Sounds Analyzer result.
device result in other relevant patient data.
Healthcare providers
conjunction with
recording and other should consider the
relevant patient data. device result in
4Device Predicate device Reference device Summary
conjunction with
recording and other
relevant patient data.
Type of use Over-The-Counter Use Over-The-Counter Use Prescription use Same as the predicate device.
Intended users Intended to be used by Intended to be used by Professional users Same as the predicate device.
professional users and lay professional users and lay
users (18-65 years old). users (18-65 years old).
Intended patient Intended for patients of 2 Intended for patients of 2 Intended for patients of all Same as the predicate device.
population years and older years and older ages
Intended Non-clinical (home) and Non-clinical (home) and Clinical setting Same as the predicate device
environment clinical clinical
Form Stand-alone software Stand-alone software Stand-alone software Same
system system system
Device composition The following modules The following modules ‘eMurmur’ is a non- Same as the predicate device
compose the Tyto Insights compose the TytoCare medical device software
for Wheeze Detection: Lung Sounds Analyzer: platform which includes Both the subject device and the
the eMurmur apps and reference device include AI
 The Tyto Insights for  The TytoCare Lung eMurmur web portal. enabled algorithm designed for
Wheeze Detection Sounds Analyzer the analysis of stethoscope
Application Server Application Server eMurmur Heart AI recordings.
(APS) (APS) interacts with the
 The Tyto Insights for  The TytoCare Lung ‘eMurmur’ software
Wheeze Detection Sounds Analyzer platform.
Algorithm Server Algorithm Server
(ALS) (ALS)
 The Tyto Insights for  The TytoCare Lung
Wheeze Detection Web Sounds Analyzer Web
5Device Predicate device Reference device Summary
Server (WBS) provides a Server (WBS) provides
graphic indication a graphic indication
whether a wheeze is whether a wheeze is
detected in the recording detected in the
It can be utilized both in recording It can be
patient and clinician side. utilized both in patient
and clinician side.
Input Lung sounds recorded by Lung sounds recorded by Acquires acoustic signals Same
compatible Tyto compatible Tyto by means of compatible
Stethoscope Stethoscope electronic stethoscope
Device technology The recordings are The recordings are To analyze heart sounds Similar
and operating created by the compatible created by the compatible via the eMurmur Heart AI,
principle Tyto Stethoscope Tyto Stethoscope a digital recording of a The proposed device, the
(K181612) and are sent (K181612) and are sent patient’s heart sounds is predicate and reference device
by the third-party point of by the third-party point of required. Recordings are acquire lung sounds with device
care app to the clinician care app to the clinician made using a supported cleared by the FDA for that
app through the telehealth app through the telehealth digital stethoscope, purpose, analyze the lung
server. server. connected to a front-end sounds and provide indication
The telehealth server The telehealth server client like, e.g., the on the presence of wheeze.
sends the set of the lung sends the set of the lung eMurmur app or the
sound recordings to the sound recordings to the eMurmur web portal. The The new algorithm’s AI enabled
Tyto Insights for Wheeze TytoCare Lung Sounds recorded auscultation data modality for analysis of
Detection web server Analyzer web server are transmitted from the stethoscope recordings doesn’t
using its dedicated API. using its dedicated API. front-end client to the raise different questions of
The telehealth server The telehealth server eMurmur backend, which safety and effectiveness.
subsequently sends the subsequently sends the hosts the eMurmur Heart
link to results and the link to results and the AI. After analysis by the Reference device was added to
relevant UI web view to relevant UI web view to eMurmur Heart AI, the support that AI enabled
results of the analysis are algorithm designed for the
6Device Predicate device Reference device Summary
the point of care app and the point of care app and returned to the front-end analysis of stethoscope
clinician app. clinician app. client where they are recordings, was cleared
The AI enabled algorithm The rule-based algorithm displayed to the user. previously by the FDA
runs automatically and runs automatically and (K220766) Similar method of
returns a response for returns a response for performance evaluation was
each audio file with the each audio file with the employed for both devices.
indication of wheezes to indication of wheezes to
the telehealth server, the telehealth server,
which sends a response to which sends a response to
both the clinician side and both the clinician side and
the patient side. the patient side.
Signal length The length of the signal is The length of the signal is Was not specified. Same as the predicate device
dictated by the recording dictated by the recording
process of the compatible process of the compatible
Stethoscope. The subject Stethoscope. The subject
device processes the device processes the
recordings in segments of recordings in segments of
up to 12 seconds while up to 12 seconds while
signals shorter than 6 signals shorter than 6
seconds will not be seconds will not be
processed. processed.
Data transfer and The telehealth server The telehealth server Server analyzes (algorithm) Same as the predicate device,
storage sends the list of the sends the list of the and stores (database) similar to the reference device.
recordings (identified by a recordings (identified by patient-related data and
unique identifier and time a unique identifier and communicates with the
stamp) to the Tyto time stamp) to the other components of
Insights for Wheeze TytoCare Lung Sounds eMurmur. The interface to
7Device Predicate device Reference device Summary
Detection web server Analyzer web server the other components is a
using its dedicated API. using its dedicated API. REST/JSON web API.
The server executes the The server executes the The backend is not a part
Tyto Insights for Wheeze TytoCare Lung Sounds of eMurmur Heart AI
Detection which runs the Analyzer which runs the (medical device); the
algorithm and provides algorithm and provides backend is part of
the results. Then the Tyto the results. Then the ‘eMurmur’, a non-medical
Insights for Wheeze TytoCare Lung Sounds device.
Detection web server Analyzer web server
initiates the web user initiates the web user
interface. interface.
All the software All the software
subsystems (server and subsystems (server and
storage) are hosted in the storage) are hosted in the
cloud and communicate cloud and communicate
through IP network. through IP network.
Output  Positive (wheeze  Positive (wheeze Identifies specific heart Same as the predicate device
suspected), suspected), sounds that may be present,
 Negative (Wheeze not  Negative (Wheeze not including S1, S2, Similarly to the reference
suspected), suspected), physiological heart device, the output is based on
 The Tyto Insights for The TytoCare lungs murmurs, pathological the AI algorithm’s analysis.
Wheeze Detection was sounds analyzer was not heart murmurs and the
not able to analyze the able to analyze the absence of a heart murmur.
recording recording
Performance The primary study The primary study Sensitivity: 85.0% (72.9%- The study endpoints and
endpoints and hypotheses endpoints and hypotheses 92.5%) hypotheses were met for the
were met for the intended were met for the intended intended patient population.
patient population, the patient population, the Specificity: 86.7% (74.9%- The performance of the Tyto
difference in AUCs was difference in AUC was in 93.7%) Insights for Wheeze Detection
8Device Predicate device Reference device Summary
in favor of Tyto Insights favor of TytoCare Lungs is non inferior to the predicate
for Wheeze Detection Sounds Analyzer device.
compared to the predicate compared to the clinical
device and in favor of the readers. The overall diagnostic
non-inferiority claim. performance show overall good
diagnostic accuracy.
Sensitivity and specificity Sensitivity and specificity
were evaluated as the were evaluated as the
secondary endpoints. secondary endpoints.
Estimate two-sided 95% Estimate two-sided 95%
Cl): Cl):
Sensitivity: 0.5465 Sensitivity: 0.69 [0.57-
[0.4304 – 0.6549] 0.78]
Specificity: 0.9895 Specificity:0.92 [0.88-
[0.9684 – 0.9966] 0.95]
User interface for Web view Web view The user interface is not a Same as the predicate device
point of care and part of eMurmur Heart AI
clinician apps (medical device); the user
interface is part of
‘eMurmur’, a non-medical
device.
9The Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection like its predicate device the TytoCare Lung Sounds
Analyzer (K221614) have the same intended use, in that both are intended to identify recordings
where a specific abnormal lung sound suggestive of “Wheeze” is suspected in the same intended
patient population (adult and pediatric 2 years and older) by the same user [Health Care
Professional (HCP)] when self-administered by patient and/or the HCPs. Both devices are only
intended to be interpreted by HCP and HCP advice is required for the patient to understand their
result. Both are labeled OTC.
Both the Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection and its predicate device are stand-alone software
systems that deliver the same intended benefit (identify recordings where a specific abnormal
lung sound suggestive of “Wheeze” is suspected). For both devices the source of the Lung
sounds recordings is the compatible FDA cleared Tyto Stethoscope (K181612).
Similarly, to the predicate device, the Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection system is composed
of three sub-systems: Application Server (APS), Algorithm Server (ALS) and Web Server
(WBS). The APS communicates with the ALS and implements an application programming
interface API for communication with the telehealth server. The ALS receives an audio file
as input and returns an analysis result of positive or negative regarding whether a wheeze was
detected as output. The ALS sub-system is composed of an Algorithm and logic wrapper and
Interface components. The code of the logic wrapper and Interface component of the ALS
component is the same as of the ALS component of the predicate device, the Algorithm’s
component is different. The Algorithm of the proposed device is Artificial Intelligence
enabled while the Algorithm of the predicate device is rule based. The AI Algorithm was
trained with recordings acquired by the real-world use of the compatible Tyto Stethoscope. The
differences in the software algorithm modality do not raise new questions of safety and
effectiveness. A reference device (K220766) was added to provide an example of FDA
cleared device that uses as an input recordings recorded by means of compatible digital
stethoscope and analyzed by AI enabled algorithm. The different algorithm modality between
the proposed device and the predicate device does require that the accuracy of the device be
substantiated with valid performance data using acceptable methods. Similar approach of
performance evaluation was employed for the reference device as well. The WBS provides a
graphic indication whether a wheeze is detected in the recording. It can be utilized both in
the patient and clinician side. The minor wording differences in the user interface did not raise
10new questions of safety and effectiveness, the differences as compared to the predicate device did
not introduce new critical tasks and didn’t impact existing critical tasks.
Standards Conformance
 ANSI AAMI ISO 14971:2019, Medical devices - Application of risk management to
medical devices
 ANSI AAMI IEC 62304:2006/A1:2016, Medical device software - Software life cycle
processes
 ISO 15223-1 Fourth edition 2021-07, Medical devices - Symbols to be used with
information to be supplied by the manufacturer - Part 1: General requirements.
 ANSI AAMI IEC 62366-1:2015+AMD1:2020 (Consolidated Text) Medical devices
Part 1: Application of usability engineering to medical device.
Performance evaluation:
The Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection was subject to performance evaluation following
methodology similar to the ones used to test the predicate device. A testing plan was
developed and performed to verify that the Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection meets its
specifications. The main aspects of the testing plan included:
 SW verification and validation - The software including both custom developed software
and OTS software, have been verified and validated and have been demonstrated to be
safe and effective for its intended use. The software documentation level is basic per
Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software Functions, Guidance for
Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff, dated June 14, 2023. All required
items related to software as required by FDA guidance for Basic Documentation Level
have been included in this submission.
 Cybersecurity- all the applicable information to reflect effective cybersecurity
management and to address the FDA’s recommendations described in Cybersecurity in
Medical Devices: Refuse to Accept Policy for Cyber Devices and Related Systems Under
Section 524B of the FD&C Act, issue date March 2023, Cybersecurity in Medical
Devices: Quality System Considerations and Content of Premarket Submissions, issue
date September 2023 and in the other FDA’s applicable policies have been included in
this submission.
 Performance evaluation - retrospective stand-alone performance evaluation of the “Tyto
Insights for Wheeze Detection” device in detecting wheeze in the compatible Tyto
Stethoscope lung recordings respective to ground truth and the predicate device.
11 Human factors validation – the minor user interface modifications did not introduce new
critical tasks and didn’t impact existing critical tasks. Therefore, no additional human
factors validation was required and the human factors testing for the predicate device
was applicable.
The performance of the Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection device in detecting wheeze in
recordings acquired by the compatible Tyto Stethoscope has been evaluated on a retrospective
validation dataset of Tyto Stethoscope recordings sourced from real world use of the FDA
cleared compatible Tyto Stethoscope. 371 recordings (359 patients) corresponded to the
intended patient population of the Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection Software recorded (86
recordings were Wheeze positive and 285 negative). The sample included recordings with
known pre-existing conditions (COPD or Asthma) (7.28%). The demographics of the validation
dataset are presented here under in Table 2:
N=371
patients
Age Group (Years)
Wheeze Positive Wheeze Total
Negative
2-18 63 (24.2%) 197 (75.8%) 260 (70.08%)
>=18 23 (20.7%) 88 (79.5%) 111 (29.92%)
Gender
Positive Negative Total
Male 53 (27.3%) 141 (72.7%) 194 (52.29%)
Female 33(18.6%) 144 (81.4%) 177 (47.71%)
Table 2: Validation data-set demographics
To establish the ground truth, all of the recordings were read by three blinded experienced
Pulmonologists at random, the binary ground truth was determined by majority vote of these
three Pulmonologists.
For the characterization of the stand-alone accuracy, the automated binary result of the software
has been compared to ground truth and specificity and sensitivity were calculated. This stand-
alone accuracy is presented hereunder in Table 3:
Parameter Estimate (two-sided 95% CI)
Sensitivity (Se) 0.54 (0.43–0.65)
Specificity (Sp) 0.98 (0.97–0.99)
Positive Predictive Value (PPV) 0.72 (0.48–0.89)
Negative Predictive Value (NPV) 0.97 (0.97–0.98)
Table 3: The stand-alone accuracy of the Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection
12To establish standalone accuracy and demonstrate substantial equivalency with the predicate
device, the primary end point was area under the Curve (AUC) for the detection of wheezes by
the proposed device compared to the TytoCare Lung Sounds Analyzer (K221614) for patients
aged 2 years and above. The independent algorithm result was compared to the result of the
TytoCare Lung Sounds Analyzer (K221614) for the same recordings to establish the non-
inferiority of the automated algorithm respective to the predicate device. Success was defined
as a lower bound of 95% two-sided CI for the difference in AUCs between the Tyto Insights for
Wheeze Detection and the TytoCare Lung Sounds Analyzer (K221614) is higher than non-
inferiority margin of -0.05 for the recordings. Non-inferiority of Tyto Insights for Wheeze
Detection compared to TytoCare Lung Sounds Analyzer (K221614) is demonstrated in Table 4:
AUC LCI UCI
TytoCare Lung Sounds Analyzer (K221614) 0.9085 0.8678 0.9372
[Analyzer]
Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection [Insights] 0.9654 0.9459 0.9790
Insights - Analyzer 0.0570 0.0289 0.0917
Table 4: Primary Endpoint stand-alone assessment: Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection
compared to TytoCare Lung Sounds Analyzer (K221614)
AUC – Area Under the receiver operating characteristic Curve; LCI/UCI – lower/upper bound of two-sided 95%
bootstrap (BCa) Confidence Interval
Non–inferiority of Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection compared to TytoCare Lung Sounds
Analyzer (K221614) for 2 years and above was established. Similar effect trend was also shown
within the subgroup analysis, as evidence that the device accuracy is consistent with age groups
and relevant pre-existing conditions.
Conclusion
The Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection Software has the same intended use and indication for
use as the predicate. The Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection is only compatible with the FDA
cleared TytoCare Stethoscope that provides the input stethoscope recordings. The minor
differences in the user interface wording and software algorithm modality do not raise new
questions of safety and effectiveness. Non–inferiority of Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection
compared to the predicate device for intended patient population was established. Thus, we
conclude that the Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection is as safe and effective as the predicate
device.
13