August 21, 2024
Subtle Medical, Inc.
℅ Jared Seehafer
Regulatory Consultant
Enzyme Corporation
611 Gateway Blvd Ste 120
South San Francisco, California 94080
Re: K240290
Trade/Device Name: AiMIFY (1.x)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: LLZ
Dated: July 18, 2024
Received: July 18, 2024
Dear Jared Seehafer:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
FDA's substantial equivalence determination also included the review and clearance of your Predetermined
Change Control Plan (PCCP). Under section 515C(b)(1) of the Act, a new premarket notification is not
required for a change to a device cleared under section 510(k) of the Act, if such change is consistent with an
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.07.02
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK240290 - Jared Seehafer Page 2
established PCCP granted pursuant to section 515C(b)(2) of the Act. Under 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3), a new
premarket notification is required if there is a major change or modification in the intended use of a device,
or if there is a change or modification in a device that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of
the device, e.g., a significant change or modification in design, material, chemical composition, energy
source, or manufacturing process. Accordingly, if deviations from the established PCCP result in a major
change or modification in the intended use of the device, or result in a change or modification in the device
that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, then a new premarket notification
would be required consistent with section 515C(b)(1) of the Act and 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3). Failure to submit
such a premarket submission would constitute adulteration and misbranding under sections 501(f)(1)(B) and
502(o) of the Act, respectively.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K240290 - Jared Seehafer Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Digitally signed by
Douglas W. Fletcher -S
for
Daniel M. Krainak, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Magnetic Resonance and Nuclear Medicine Team
DHT8C: Division of Radiological Imaging
and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K240290
Device Name
AiMIFY (1.x)
Indications for Use (Describe)
AiMIFY is an image processing software that can be used for image enhancement in MRI images. It can be used to
increase contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR), contrast enhancement (CEP), and lesion-to-brain ratio (LBR) of enhancing tissue
in brain MRI images acquired with a gadolinium-based contrast agent. It is intended to enhance MRI images acquired
using standard approved dosage per the contrast agent’s instructions for use.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFK240290
AiMIFY 510(k) Summary
Table 1.ContactDetails &Device Name
DateSummary Prepared: 2024-08-20
Contact Details
Applicant Name: Subtle Medical,Inc.
Applicant Address: 883SantaCruz Ave,Suite205
Menlo Park, CA94025UnitedStates
Applicant Contact: Ms.RonnyElor
Applicant ContactTelephone: (925) 324-8467
Applicant ContactEmail: ronny@subtlemedical.com
Correspondent Name: EnzymeCorporation
Correspondent Address: 611GatewayBlvd, Ste120
South SanFrancisco,CA 94080 UnitedStates
Correspondent Contact: Mr.Jared Seehafer
Correspondent ContactTelephone: (415) 638-9554
Correspondent ContactEmail: jared@enzyme.com
Device Name
Device TradeName: AiMIFY (1.x)
Common Name: Medicalimagemanagementand processingsystem
Classification Name: System, ImageProcessing, Radiological
Regulation Number: 892.2050
Product Code: LLZ
Device Class: ClassII
Legally MarketedPredicate Predicate #:K223623
Device: Predicate TradeName: SubtleMR
Predicate Manufacturer:Subtle Medical
AiMIFY 510(k) Summary
Page 1K240290
Device Description Summary
The AiMIFY device is a software as a medical device consisting of a machine learning software
algorithm that enhances images taken by MRI scanners. AiMIFY consists of a software algorithm that
improves contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR),contrast enhancement (CEP), andlesion-to-brainratio (LBR)of
Gadolinium-Based ContrastAgent(GBCA) enhancedT1-weightedimageswhilemaintaining diagnostic
performance, using deep learning technology. It is a post-processing software that does not directly
interact with the MR scanner and does not have a graphical user interface. It is intended to be used by
radiologists in an imaging center, clinic, or hospital. The AiMIFY software uses T1 pre and
post-contrast MR images acquired as part of standard of care contrast-enhanced MRI exams as the
software input. The outputs are the corresponding images with enhanced contrast presence. AiMIFY
enhances DICOMimages.
AiMIFY image processing software uses aconvolutionalneural networkbased algorithm toenhancethe
AiMIFY-contrast images from pre-contrast and standard-dose post-contrast images. The image
processing can be performed on MRI imageswith predefinedorspecificacquisition protocolsettings as
follows: gradientecho(pre- andpost-contrast), 3DBRAVO (pre-and post-contrast),3D MPRAGE(pre-
and post-contrast), 2D T1 spin echo (pre- and post-contrast), T1 FLAIR/ inversion recovery spin echo
(pre- andpost-contrast).
The AiMIFY image is created by AiMIFY and sent back to the picture archiving and communication
system (PACS)or other DICOMnode bythecompatible MDDSfor clinical review.
Because the software runs in the background, it has no user interface. It is intended to be used by
radiologists inan imaging center,clinic,or hospital.
Note, depending on the functionality of the compatible MDDS, AiMIFY can be used within the
facility’s network or remotely. The AiMIFY device itself is not networked and therefore does not
increase the cybersecurity risk of its users. Users are provided cybersecurity recommendations in
labeling.
Intended Use / Indications for Use
AiMIFY is animageprocessing software thatcan beused for imageenhancementin MRIimages.It can
be used to increase contrast-to-noise ratio(CNR), contrast enhancement(CEP), and lesion-to-brainratio
(LBR) of enhancing tissue in brain MRI images acquired with a gadolinium-based contrast agent. It is
intended to enhance MRI images acquired using standard approved dosage per the contrast agent’s
instructions for use.
Intended Use / Indications for Use Comparison
AiMIFY and SubtleMR are both intended to enhance 2D/3D T1 imaging data from MRI imaging
systems.
AiMIFY 510(k) Summary
Page 2K240290
Technological Comparison
The following table shows the similarities and differences between the technological characteristics of
thepredicateand subjectdevices.
Table 2.Summary ofTechnological CharacteristicsComparison
Topic PredicateDevice SubjectDevice
Physical Softwarepackagethatoperatesonoff-the-shelf Same
Characteristics hardware
DICOM ThesoftwareprocessesDICOMcompliant Same
Standard imagedata
Compliance
Operating Linux Same
System
Modalities MRI Same
UserInterface None–enhancedimagesareviewedon Same
existingPACSworkstations
Workflow ThesoftwareoperatesonDICOMfilesonthe Same
filesystem,enhancestheimages,andstores
theenhancedimagesonthefilesystem.The
receiptoforiginalDICOMimagefilesand
deliveryofenhancedimagesasDICOMfiles
dependsonothersoftwaresystems.Enhanced
imagesco-existwiththeoriginalimages.
Algorithm SubtleMRimplementsanimageenhancement AiMIFYimplementsanimage
algorithmusingconvolutionalneuralnetwork enhancementalgorithmusing
basedfiltering.Originalimagesareenhanced convolutionalneuralnetworkbased
byrunningthroughacascadeoffilterbanks, filtering.Themodelperformsnon-linear
wherethresholdingandscalingoperationsare scalingofthecontrastuptakebetweenthe
applied.Separateneuralnetworkbasedfilters pre-andpost-contrastimagestoimprove
areobtainedfornoisereductionandsharpness thevisualizationoftheareasinthebrain
increase.Theparametersofthefilterswere thathaveabsorbedthecontrastmaterial.
obtainedthroughanimage-guided
optimizationprocess.
Inputs SubtleMRprocessesasingleinputimage(with AiMIFYprocessestwoinputimages(T1
lowSNRorlowresolution)andoutputsa pre-contrastandT1post-contrast)and
singleimagewithhigherSNRorresolution. outputsasingleimagewithahigher
relativeCNR.
Processing SubtleMRprocessestheinputimagesliceby AiMIFYprocessestheinputimageina
sliceina2DfashionusingaResNETstyle 2.5DfashionusingaUNetstyleneural
neuralnetwork. network.
AiMIFY 510(k) Summary
Page 3K240290
Fundamentally,both devicesenhanceimagesfrominput data providedbyMRimagingsystems. Though
there aretechnologicaldifferences, they donotpresentdifferent questionsofsafety andeffectiveness,
and themethodsfor assessing thesafety andeffectivenessofthe subjectdevicearesubstantivelysimilar
to thoseof thepredicatedevice.
Predetermined Change Control Plan
AiMIFY has a Predetermined Change Control Plan for planned changes toimprove thegeneralizability
of the AiMIFY Artificial Intelligence/MachineLearning(AI/ML)model, toreduce processingtime,and
improve perceivedimagequality.
Improved generalizability of the AiMIFY AI/ML model is expected to affect the labeled limitations of
AiMIFY, as the model will be more generalizable than the cleared version ofthe device.Improvements
planned include additional training and/or performance data to add more gadolinium-based contrast
agents, add additional patient ages (infants and children), add additional clinical conditions, and add
additional scanner models. The AiMIFY AI/ML model isplanned toberetrained withadditionaloutput
channels to reduce processing time, and shall be subject to the same performance testingendpointsand
acceptancecriteria asthe clearedversion ofthe device.
Additionally, an optional pre-processing feature is planned that consists of an algorithm which will
suppress vessel enhancement of the AiMIFY AI/ML model to reduce vessel conspicuity in the
AiMIFY-enhanced images and resulting in improved perceived image quality. The vessel suppression
algorithm shall be subject to the same performance testing performance testing endpoints and
acceptance criteria as the cleared version of the device, along with the additional endpointsthat lesions
in AiMIFY-enhance images with vessel suppression should have equivalent CNR, LBR, CEP
improvements than images without suppression and that the CNR, LBR, CEP around small and large
blood vessels are lower in AiMIFY-enhance images with vessel suppression than without. The vessel
suppression algorithm shall be subject to the same performance testing dataset used in the cleared
version of the device, along with additional data containing lesions that appear like blood vessels to
demonstrate that the vessel suppression algorithm doesn’t incorrectly suppress enhancement of the
lesionin thisedge casesituation.
All changes shall be performed as a part of Subtle Medical’s Design Change Control process in a
Quality Management System that is ISO 13485:2016 and MDSAP certified. All impacted design
documentation, testing documentation, and labeling shall be updated appropriately for each change.
None of the changes shall result in a change to the Indications for Use, Cautions, performance
endpoints, or acceptance criteria of AiMIFY. Each change to AiMIFY shall be accompanied by a
software version-specific Customer Release Notes describing the change along with software
version-specific User Manual (with updated Limitations description if applicable) and other updated
labeling.
AiMIFY 510(k) Summary
Page 4K240290
Non-Clinical and/or Clinical Tests Summary & Conclusions
Dataset Characteristics:
The dataset used for the quantitative and qualitative tests consists of95T1 braincaseswitha varietyof
protocols,contrastagent, MRIscanners, andpatient demographics.
Theimages varied inacquisition including:
● T1 input protocols:BRAVO,MPRAGE+, FLAIR,FSE.
● Orientation: axial,sagittal, coronal
● Acquisitiontype: 2D, 3D
Theimages wereacquired fromvariousscanners:
● Field strength:0.3T, 1.5T, 3.0T
● Vendors: GE, Philips, Siemens,Hitachi
Theimages weresourcedfrom avarietyof patients:
● Age: Relatively evendistribution fromage 7to86.
● Sex: Relativeevent distribution of femalesandmales.
● Pathologies: Cerebritis, Glioma, Meningioma, Lymphoma, Metastases, Multiple Sclerosis,
Neuritis, Inflammation,Other tumor related (resection/ radiationnecrosis /suspected cyst /etc.),
otherabnormalities
● Population Demographics*: California, USA; New York, USA; Nationwide, USA; Beijing,
China
*Due to privacy practices, ethnicities of the training and testing data is unknown but can be inferred
based on the population demographics from where they were sourced. The populationdemographicsof
data sources used for training and testing are as follows per the Census.gov July 2022 Estimates. In
California, USA, the population of 39m people are distributed by race and hispanic origin as: White
alone 70.7%, Black or African American alone 6.5%,American Indian andAlaskan Native alone1.7%,
Asian alone 16.3%, Native Hawaiianand OtherPacific Islanderalone, percent0.5%, Twoor MoreRace
4.3%, Hispanic or Latino 40.3%, and White alone (not Hispanic or Latino) 34.7%. InNew York, USA,
the population of 20m people are distributed by race and hispanic origin as: White alone 68.6%, Black
or African American alone 17.7%, American Indian and Alaskan Native alone 1%, Asian alone 9.6%,
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone, percent 0.1%, Two or More Race 2.8%, Hispanicor
Latino 19.7%, and White alone (not Hispanic or Latino) 54.2%. In the overall USA, the population of
333m people are distributed by race and hispanic origin as: White alone 75.5%, Black or African
American alone 13.6%, American Indian and Alaskan Native alone 1.3%, Asian alone 6.3%, Native
Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone, percent 0.3%, Two or More Race 3%, Hispanic or Latino
19.1%, Whitealone(not Hispanicor Latino) 58.9%.
AiMIFY 510(k) Summary
Page 5K240290
Quantitative Assessment(BenchTest):
In addition to software verification & validation, performance bench testing was conducted to
demonstrate the safety and efficacy of applying AiMIFY to enhance contrasted images using a
convolutional neural network on clinically acquiredpre-and post-contrastbrainimages. Toevaluatethe
performance of the software, Subtle quantitatively evaluated the 95 acquired studies recruited from
clinical sites or hospitals. Of these cases, it was found during the Reader Study that 57 of them had
lesions. The acquired studies include pre-contrast, post-contrast, and AiMIFY images from various
sites, age ranges, manufacturers, scanner models, orientations, and magnitudes of field strengths. They
were used to assess the superiority of the AiMIFY against the acquired post-contrast image using
Contrast Enhancement Percentage (CEP), Contrast-to-Noise Ratio (CNR), and Lesion-to-Brain Ratio
(LBR) toperform the analysis.
The primary endpoint of the quantitative test was that the CNR,LBR, andCEP of aselected regionof
interest (ROI) in each test datasetis onaverageimproved bygreaterthanor equalto 50%after AiMIFY
enhancement comparedto thetraditionally acquiredcontrast images.
Two ROIs were drawn by a board-certified radiologistfor each casetocapture theenhancinglesionand
brain parenchyma. An ROI was drawn at the superior sagittal sinusregionwithout anenhancinglesion.
The post-contrast image was labeled where the ROI was copied to the AiMIFY image with relevant
metricsonthecase. TheROIis designedtoestimatethe signalintensityvalue.
Contrast-to-Noise Ratio (CNR) was determined to be 559.94% across all 95 cases, and 831.70%
for the 57 lesion-only cases. The CNR of the AiMIFY images is significantly higher (Wilcoxon
signed-ranktest,p< 0.0001)than that ofthe standardpost-contrast images.Thehighincreaseof CNR of
AiMIFY images compared to standard post-contrast images is due to the fact that both the contrast
between alesionandthe normalparenchyma isincreasedbyAiMIFY andalso thenoise ofthe imagesis
reduced bythedenoising module ofAiMIFY.
Lesion-to-Brain Ratio (LBR) wasdeterminedto be62.07%acrossall 95cases,and58.80%for the
57 lesion-only cases. The Contrast Enhancement Percentage (CEP) between the acquired
post-contrast image and AiMIFY was determined to be133.29%across all95cases,and 101.80%
for the 57 lesion only cases.TheLBR andthe CEP metricof theAiMIFY imagesarebothsignificantly
better (Wilcoxon signed-rank test,p-value< 0.0001)than thatof thestandard post-contrast images.Both
metrics are measuring themain effectsof AiMIFY,whichis theincreaseof signalintensityof enhancing
tissue, measuredas CEP andleadingtohigherLBR.
In summary, these results provethat the AiMIFYimagesareenhancedwiththe acquiredpost-contrast in
termsof thesignal intensityvalue fromthe brainparenchymato theenhancedlesion.
AiMIFY 510(k) Summary
Page 6K240290
Qualitative Assessment(Reader Study):
The AiMIFY Reader Study aimed to demonstrate image enhancement of contrasted MRI images by
applying AiMIFY post-processing enhancement software using convolutional neural networks.
Specifically, 3 board-certified neuro-radiologists evaluated the Perceived Visibility ofanatomic features
and lesions. The primary diagnostic categories were (1) Meningioma, (2) Glioma, (3) Lymphoma, (4)
Metastases, (5) Infection, (6) Cerebritis, (7) Multiple Sclerosis, (8) Neuritis, (9) Other tumor-related
(resection / radiation necrosis / suspected cyst / etc.), and (10) Other abnormality. The readers were
presented with both the pre- and post-contrast input images and the AiMIFY enhanced image. Readers
were asked to evaluate the Perceived Visibility of Lesion Contrast Enhancement, Lesion Border
Delineation, and Lesion InternalMorphologyona 4-point Likert scale.Additionally, readerswere asked
to evaluate Perceived Image Quality, Artifact Presence, and Vessel Conspicuity on a 4-point Likert
scale.
The primary endpoint of the qualitative test was the visibility of lesion features (lesion contrast
enhancement, border delineation, and internal morphology) for cases with identified lesions in the test
datasets should be statistically significantly better for AiMIFY processed images per the Wilcoxon
signed ranktestby p<0.05.
Lesion Contrast Enhancement, Border Delineation, and Internal Morphology were significantly
better than standard post-contrast by p<0.0001. Therefore, results provide evidence that AiMIFY
provides a significant improvement of lesion contrast enhancement, border delineation, and internal
morphology visualization.
The secondary endpoint of the qualitative test was the visibility of perceived imagequalityand image
artifacts for all cases in the test datasets for AiMIFY processed images should NOT be statistically
significantlyworsethan standardpost-contrast imagesper the Wilcoxonsigned rank testbyp<0.05.
Perceived Image Quality and Artifact Presence And Impact On Clinical Diagnosis were
significantly not worse than standard post-contrast by p<0.0001. Additionally, two of three readers
demonstrated that Perceived ImageQuality isbetter thanstandard post-contrastbyp<0.0001. Therefore,
these results provide evidence that AiMIFY does not have worse perceived image quality or artifacts
that impactdiagnosis,and mayhave higher perceivedimagequality.
In addition to theprimaryandsecondary endpoints,thestudy containedseveral exploratoryendpointsto
characterize AiMIFY’sperformance.
ExploratoryEndpoints:
Vessel Conspicuity
AiMIFY 510(k) Summary
Page 7K240290
The first exploratory endpoint wastheevaluation ofuserpreference of vesselconspicuityfor all casesin
thetestdatasets forAiMIFY processedimages toestablish thelimitationsof AiMIFY.
Compared to 3.51% of standard post-contrast cases, 11.58% of AiMIFY cases were rated as likely to
impact diagnosisdue tovesselconspicuity. However,in90%of casesvesselconspicuity wasassessed as
unlikelyto impact orhaving noimpactondiagnosis.Thisshows thatthe potentialnegative impactofthe
higher vessel conspicuity withAiMIFYis limited.Additionally,a further breakdownof results byreader
revealed thatthere wassignificantvariability inreader preferenceregarding vesselconspicuity.
False LesionAnalysis
The second exploratory endpoint was theevaluation offalse lesionfrequency,cause,and severityfor all
cases inthetestdatasets for AiMIFYprocessed imagestoestablish acautionstatementfor AiMIFY.
73% of cases didnot havefalse lesions,4% ofcaseswith falselesionsdid nothaveimpact ondiagnosis,
9% of cases withfalselesionshad minor impactondiagnosis,14% ofcaseswith falselesionshad major
impact on diagnosis (4% being due to falselesionsthat areintroduced byAiMIFY,2%due toqualityof
input images, and 8% being due to a combination of both causes). 100% of cases received scoresfrom
all readersthattheStandard-of-Careimagewassufficient toidentifythe falselesion(s).
LesionSize
To establish the range of lesions that AiMIFYis validatedtobe usedonthe sizeoflesionsin the95test
subject validationdatasets usedfor AiMIFYquantitativeand qualitativeassessmentwasperformed.
AiMIFY has beenvalidated withlesionsizesrangingfrom 1.23ccto7.08cc with95% CI,andhasbeen
tested on lesions as small as 0.02 cc and as large as 59.83 cc. AiMIFY processed images had greater
lesion contrast enhancement than standard-of-care post-contrast images for both small lesions (<1cc:
AiMIFY =3.57versusOriginal =2.71) andlargelesions(>1cc:AiMIFY =3.77versus Original= 3.23).
This establishes the range of lesion sizes over which AiMIFY performance hasbeen validated,and that
enhancement isseeninboth small(<1cc)andlarge(>1cc) lesions.
Radiomics
Radiomics analysis wasperformedtoassess thesimilarity inthe texturerelated featuresof thelesionsas
well as parenchyma tissue / healthy tissue, using the concordance correlation coefficient (CCC) as the
metric, on 95 subject datasets (the same data from the AiMIFY Quantitative Assessment described
above).
AiMIFY 510(k) Summary
Page 8K240290
The similarity in the texture measured asConcordanceCorrelation Coefficient (CCC)between AiMIFY
input and output images in seven radiomics feature classes were all >= 0.65 for lesion tissue.
Specifically, the CCC in the seven radiomics feature classes ranged from 0.68 to0.89,whichareall >=
0.65, for lesion tissue. Seven radiomics feature classes of SOC and AiMIFY-enhanced have a good
correlationfor lesion tissue.
The similarity in the texture measured as CCC between AiMIFY input and output images in seven
radiomics feature classes were all>= 0.8for parenchyma tissue/healthytissue.Specifically,the CCCin
the seven radiomics feature classes ranged from 0.82 to 0.92, which are all >= 0.8, for parenchyma
tissue / healthy tissue. Seven radiomics feature classes of SOC and AiMIFY-enhanced have a good
correlationfor parenchymatissue /healthytissue.
Dose Appearance
To assess whether AiMIFY-enhancedimageshavea high-dose-likeappearance,the ‘doseconcentration’
of AiMIFY-enhanced images to standard post-contrast images was compared using a physics-based
formula. “BRAVO” sequence images were chosen for this evaluation due to the widelyaccepted signal
evolutionequationwhichis wellestablishedin theliterature. On average,AiMIFY-enhancedimageshad
93% more dose concentration than standard post-contrast images, indicating they do have a
high-dose-likeappearance.
In addition, the training and validation datasets were compared in terms of CNR increase, where the
training dataset compared CNR increase from low-dose to regular-dose post-contrast images while the
testing dataset compared CNR increase from standard regular-dose post-contrast images and the
AiMIFY-enhancedpost-contrast images.Both datasets hadsignificantincreasesin CNRincrease.
SubtleMR
The AiMIFY device makes use of the SubtleMR device (K223623) as a denoising module in its
post-processing engine. As the SubtleMR device was not previously tested or trained on
AiMIFY-processed images, validation of SubtleMRusing thevalidation testsdescribed inK223623 was
conductedto ensure performanceof that deviceonthisnewtype ofinput data.
When using SubtleMR in AiMIFY post-processing, average scores between the original and SubtleMR
enhancedimages are<= 0.5Likert scalepoints for visibility ofsmallstructures. Specifically,theaverage
score between original and SubtleMR enhanced images was 0.05 points. These results demonstratethat
SubtleMR’s denoising doesnot over-smoothimages processedbythe AiMIFYalgorithm.
When using SubtleMR in AiMIFY post-processing, average scores difference between the original and
SubtleMR enhanced images are <= 0.5 Likert scale points for perceived SNR, Image Quality, Image
AiMIFY 510(k) Summary
Page 9K240290
Artifact Scores. Specifically, the average SNR score difference between original and SubtleMR
enhanced images was 0.05 for Septum Pellucidum, 0.08 for Cranial Nerves, and 0.07 for Cerebellar
Folia. The averageimagequality/diagnostic confidence scoredifferencebetween original andSubtleMR
enhanced images was 0.11 for Septum Pellucidum, 0.04 for Cranial Nerves, and -0.05 for Cerebellar
Folia. The average imaging artifacts score difference between original and SubtleMR enhanced images
was 0.11for Septum Pellucidum,0.14for CranialNerves,and0.05for CerebellarFolia.
These results demonstrate that SubtleMR’s denoising does not negatively impact perceived SNR,
perceived image quality/diagnostic confidence, or imagingartifacts inimagesprocessed bytheAiMIFY
algorithm.
When evaluating for SNR improvement, the average SNR improvement was 14%, greater than the 5%
acceptance criteria establishedintheSubtleMR validation,indicating thatSubtleMR candenoiseimages
processed bytheAiMIFY algorithm.
Conclusion:
Theseresults demonstrate thatthe AiMIFYis substantiallyequivalentto thepredicatedevice.
AiMIFY 510(k) Summary
Page 10