See-Mode Technoloies Pte. Ltd.
See-Mode Technologies Pte. Ltd.
℅ Sadaf Monajemi
Co-founder and Director
32 Carpenter Street, #03-01
Singapore, 059911
Singapore
September 9, 2024
Re: K240697
Trade/Device Name: See-Mode Augmented Reporting Tool, Thyroid (SMART-T)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2090
Regulation Name: Radiological Computer Assisted Detection And Diagnosis Software
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QDQ, QIH
Dated: August 2, 2024
Received: August 2, 2024
Dear Sadaf Monajemi:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.07.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK240697 - Sadaf Monajemi Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K240697 - Sadaf Monajemi Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT 8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT 8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
Submission Number (if known)
K240697
I
Device Name
See-Mode Augmented Reporting Tool, Thyroid (SMART-T)
Indications for Use (Describe)
See-Mode Augmented Reporting Tool, Thyroid (SMART-T) is a stand-alone reporting software to
assist trained medical professionals in analyzing thyroid ultrasound images of adult (>=22 years old)
patients who have been referred for an ultrasound examination.
Output of the device includes regions of interest (ROls) placed on the thyroid ultrasound images
assisting healthcare professionals to localize nodules in thyroid studies. The device also outputs
ultrasonographic lexicon-based descriptors based on ACR TI-RADS. The software generates a
report based on the image analysis results to be reviewed and approved by a qualified clinician after
performing quality control.
SMART-T may also be used as a structured reporting software for further ultrasound studies. The
software includes tools for reading measurements and annotations from the images that can be
used for generating a structured report.
Patient management decisions should not be made solely on the basis of analysis by See-Mode
Augmented Reporting Tool, Thyroid.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
[ Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) [Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
"An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number."Traditional510k
See-ModeAugmentedReportingTool,Thyroid
K240697
This"510(k)Summary"waspreparedpersection807.92(c).
1. ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION
DateofPreparation:September5,2024
Preparedby: SadafMonajemi,PhD.Co-founderandDirector
Manufacturer: See-ModeTechnologiesPte.Ltd.
32CarpenterStreet#03-01
Singapore059911
SINGAPORE
Email:sadaf@see-mode.com
Tel:+61415952782
www.see-mode.com
OfficialContact: Dr.SadafMonajemi,PhD,Co-founderandDirector
See-ModeTechnologies
32CarpenterStreet#03-01
Singapore059911
SINGAPORE
Email:sadaf@see-mode.com
www.see-mode.com
2. DEVICE NAME AND CLASSIFICATION
Trade/ProprietaryName:See-ModeAugmentedReportingTool,Thyroid
(SMART-T)
RegulationNumber:21CFR892.2090
RegulationName:Radiologicalcomputer-assisteddetectionanddiagnosissoftware
ClassificationName:System,ImageProcessing,Radiological
ReviewPanel:Radiology
RegulatoryClass: ClassII
ProductCode:QDQ/QIH
3. INTENDED USE
Localizationandcharacterizationofthyroidultrasoundimages.
Page1Traditional 510k
See-Mode AugmentedReporting Tool,Thyroid
4. INDICATIONS FOR USE
See-Mode Augmented Reporting Tool, Thyroid (SMART-T) is a stand-alone reporting
software to assist trained medical professionals in analyzing thyroid ultrasound images
ofadult(>=22yearsold)patientswhohavebeenreferredforanultrasoundexamination.
Output of the device includes regions ofinterest(ROIs)placedonthethyroidultrasound
images assisting healthcare professionals to localize nodules in thyroid studies. The
device also outputs ultrasonographic lexicon-based descriptors based on ACR TI-RADS.
The software generates a report based on the image analysis results to bereviewedand
approvedbyaqualifiedclinicianafterperformingqualitycontrol.
SMART-T may also be used as a structured reporting software for further ultrasound
studies. The software includes toolsforreadingmeasurementsandannotationsfromthe
imagesthatcanbeusedforgeneratingastructuredreport.
Patient management decisions should not be made solely on the basis of analysis by
See-ModeAugmentedReportingTool,Thyroid.
5. DEVICE DESCRIPTION
See-Mode Augmented Reporting Tool, Thyroid (SMART-T) is a stand-alone, web-based
image processing and reporting software for localization,characterizationandreporting
ofthyroidultrasoundimages.
The software analyzes thyroid ultrasound images and uses machine learningalgorithms
to extract specific information. The algorithms can identify and localize suspicious soft
tissue nodules and also generate lexicon-based descriptors, which are classified
according toACRTI-RADS(composition,echogenicity,shape,margin,andechogenicfoci)
withacalculatedTI-RADSlevelaccordingtotheACRTI-RADSchart.
SMART-T may also be used as a structured reporting software for further ultrasound
studies. The software includes toolsforreadingmeasurementsandannotationsfromthe
imagesthatcanbeusedforgeneratingastructuredreport.
The software then generates a report based ontheimageanalysisresultstobereviewed
and approved by a qualified clinician after performing quality control. Any information
within this report can be changed and modified by the clinician ifneededduringquality
controlandbeforefinalizingthereport.
The software runsonastandard“off-the-shelf”computerandcanbeaccessedwithinthe
client web browser to perform the reporting of ultrasound images. Input data and
images for the software are acquired through DICOM-compliant ultrasound imaging
devices.
Page2Traditional 510k
See-Mode AugmentedReporting Tool,Thyroid
The data produced by the software is intended to be used by trained medical
professionals, including but not limited to physicians and medical technicians. The
software is not intended to be used as an independent source of medical advice or to
determineorrecommendacourseofactionortreatmentforpatients.
6. SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE
6.1. Predicate Device
Manufacturer:TaiHaoMedicalInc.
TradeName:BU-CAD
510(k)Identifier:K210670
RegulationNumber:21CFR892.2090
RegulationName:RadiologicalComputerAssistedDetection/DiagnosisSoftware
ForLesionsSuspiciousForCancer
ClassificationName:RadiologicalComputerAssistedDetection/DiagnosisSoftware
ForLesionsSuspiciousForCancer
ClassificationPanel:Radiology
RegulatoryClass: ClassII
ProductCode:QDQ,LLZ
DateCleared:December21,2021
6.2. Tabular Comparison of Features and Specifications of the Subject
Device, Predicate Device, and Reference Device
SubjectDevice PredicateDevice ReferenceDevice
See-ModeAugmented BU-CAD(K210670) KoiosDS(K212616)
ReportingTool,Thyroid
(SMART-T)
(K240697)
Administrativeinformation
Regulation 21CFR892.2090 21CFR892.2090 21CFR892.2060
Radiological Radiological Radiological
computer-assisteddetection computer-assisteddetection computer-assisteddiagnostic
anddiagnosissoftwarefor anddiagnosissoftwarefor softwareforlesions
lesionssuspiciousforcancer lesionssuspiciousforcancer suspiciousofcancer
Regulatory ClassII ClassII ClassII
Class
Page3Traditional 510k
See-Mode AugmentedReporting Tool,Thyroid
SubjectDevice PredicateDevice ReferenceDevice
See-ModeAugmented BU-CAD(K210670) KoiosDS(K212616)
ReportingTool,Thyroid
(SMART-T)
(K240697)
Product QDQ,QIH QDQ,LLZ POK,QIH
Code
510(k) K240697 K210670 K212616
Number
IntendedUse
Indications See-ModeAugmented BU-CADisasoftware KoiosDSisanartificial
forUse ReportingTool,Thyroid applicationindicatedtoassist intelligence(AI)/machine
(SMART-T)isastand-alone trainedinterpreting learning(ML)-based
reportingsoftwaretoassist physiciansinanalyzingthe computer-aideddiagnosis
trainedmedical breastultrasoundimagesof (CADx)softwaredevice
professionalsinanalyzing patientswithsofttissue intendedforuseasan
thyroidultrasoundimages breastlesionssuspiciousfor adjuncttodiagnostic
ofadult(>=22yearsold) breastcancerwhoarebeing ultrasoundexaminationsof
patientswhohavebeen referredforfurtherdiagnostic lesionsornodules
referredforanultrasound ultrasoundexamination. suspiciousforbreastor
examination. thyroidcancer.
Outputofthedeviceincludes
Outputofthedevice regionsofinterest(ROIs)and KoiosDSallowstheuserto
includesregionsofinterest lesioncontoursplacedon selectorconfirmregionsof
(ROIs)placedonthethyroid breastultrasoundimages interest(ROIs)withinan
ultrasoundimagesassisting assistingphysicianstoidentify imagerepresentingasingle
healthcareprofessionalsto suspicioussofttissuelesions lesionornoduletobe
localizenodulesinthyroid fromuptotwoorthogonal analyzed.Thesoftwarethen
studies.Thedevicealso viewsofasinglelesion,and automaticallycharacterizes
outputsultrasonographic region-basedanalysisof theselectedimagedatato
lexicon-baseddescriptors lesionmalignancyuponthe generateanAI/ML-derived
basedonACRTI-RADS.The physician’squery.The cancerriskassessmentand
softwaregeneratesareport region-basedanalysis selectsapplicable
basedontheimageanalysis indicatesthescoreoflesion lexicon-baseddescriptors
resultstobereviewedand characteristics(SLC),and designedtoimproveoverall
approvedbyaqualified correspondingBI-RADS diagnosticaccuracyaswell
clinicianafterperforming categoriesinuser-selected asreduceinterpreting
qualitycontrol. ROIsorROIsautomatically physicianvariability.
identifiedbythesoftware.In
SMART-Tmayalsobeused addition,BU-CADalso KoiosDSmayalsobeusedas
asastructuredreporting automaticallyclassifieslesion animageviewerof
softwareforfurther shape,orientation,margin, multi-modalitydigital
ultrasoundstudies.The echopattern,andposterior images,includingultrasound
softwareincludestoolsfor featuresaccordingtoBI-RADS andmammography.The
readingmeasurementsand descriptors. softwareincludestoolsthat
Page4Traditional 510k
See-Mode AugmentedReporting Tool,Thyroid
SubjectDevice PredicateDevice ReferenceDevice
See-ModeAugmented BU-CAD(K210670) KoiosDS(K212616)
ReportingTool,Thyroid
(SMART-T)
(K240697)
annotationsfromtheimages allowuserstoadjust,
thatcanbeusedfor BU-CADmayalsobeusedas measureanddocument
generatingastructured animageviewerof images,andoutputintoa
report. multi-modalitydigitalimages, structuredreport.
includingultrasoundand
Patientmanagement mammography.Thesoftware KoiosDSsoftwareis
decisionsshouldnotbe includestoolsthatallowusers designedtoassisttrained
madesolelyonthebasisof toadjust,measureand interpretingphysiciansin
analysisbySee-Mode documentimages,andoutput analyzingthebreast
AugmentedReportingTool, intoastructuredreport(SR). ultrasoundimagesofadult
Thyroid. (>=22years)female
Patientmanagementdecisions patientswithsofttissue
shouldnotbemadesolelyon breastlesionsand/or
thebasisofanalysisby thyroidultrasoundsofall
BU-CAD. adult(>=22years)patients
withthyroidnodules
suspiciousforcancer.When
utilizedbyaninterpreting
physicianwhohas
completedtheprescribed
training,thisdeviceprovides
informationthatmaybe
usefulinrecommending
appropriateclinical
management.
Intended Patientswiththyroid Patientswithsoft Patientswiththyroidnodules
Population nodules tissuebreastlesions suspiciousforcancer
whoarebeingreferred whoarebeingreferred (Prescriptiononly)
forultrasoundscan forultrasound
(Prescriptiononly) interpreting
(Prescriptiononly)
Image Ultrasoundimages Ultrasoundimages Ultrasoundimages
Source
Rxonly? Yes Yes Yes
TechnologicalCharacteristics
Page5Traditional 510k
See-Mode AugmentedReporting Tool,Thyroid
SubjectDevice PredicateDevice ReferenceDevice
See-ModeAugmented BU-CAD(K210670) KoiosDS(K212616)
ReportingTool,Thyroid
(SMART-T)
(K240697)
Application Thesubjectdeviceisa BU-CADisasoftwaresystem KoiosDSisa
Description stand-alone,web-based designedtoassistusersin computer-aideddiagnosis
imageprocessingand analyzingbreastultrasound (CADx)softwaredevice
reportingsoftwarefor imagesincludingidentification intendedforuseasan
localization,characterization ofregionssuspiciousforbreast adjuncttodiagnostic
andreportingofthyroid cancerandassessmentoftheir ultrasoundexaminationsof
ultrasoundimages. malignancy.BU-CADconsists lesionsornodules
ofaviewer,alesion suspiciousforbreastor
Thesoftwareanalyzes identificationmodule,anda thyroidcancer.
thyroidultrasoundimages lesionanalysismodule.
andusesmachinelearning KoiosDSallowstheuserto
algorithmstoextractspecific Thelesionidentification selectorconfirmregionsof
information.Thealgorithms moduleidentifiesregionsof interest(ROIs)withinan
canidentifyandlocalize interest(automatedROIs)ofa imagerepresentingasingle
suspicioussofttissue singlesuspicioussofttissue lesionornoduletobe
nodulesandalsogenerate lesioninuptotwoorthogonal analyzed.KoiosDSsoftware
lexicon-baseddescriptors, viewsofbreastultrasound containsfunctionalityfor
whichareclassified imagesforassistingusersin automaticallyclassifying
accordingtoACRTI-RADS detectingsofttissuelesions. thyroidnodulessuspicious
(composition,echogenicity, Additionally,thelesion forcancer.
shape,margin,andechogenic identificationmodule
foci)withacalculated generatesanROIandalesion Thesystemgeneratesan
TI-RADScategoryaccording contouroneachbreast outputalignedtoeitherthe
totheACRTI-RADSchart. ultrasoundimage. TI-RADSorATAclassification
guidelines.Thesystem
Thesoftwarethengenerates Thelesionanalysismodule automaticallygenerates
areportbasedontheimage analyzesgivenROIsofabreast user-modifiablethyroid
analysisresultstobe lesiononultrasoundimages, noduledescriptors
reviewedandapprovedbya andgeneratesascoreoflesion (Composition,Echogenicity,
qualifiedclinicianafter characteristics(SLC)interms Shape,Margin,Echogenic
performingqualitycontrol. ofmalignancyorbenignityofa Foci)andadirect,
Anyinformationwithinthis lesion,BI-RADScategory,and image-derivedcancerrisk
reportcanbechangedand BI-RADSdescriptors. assessmentthatistranslated
modifiedbytheclinicianif intoanoptional
neededduringquality lexicon-specific(TI-RADSor
controlandbeforefinalizing ATA)modifier.
thereport.
Anatomical Thyroid Breast ThyroidandBreast
Location
Input Medicalimages Medicalimages Medicalimages
providedinaDICOM providedinaDICOM providedinaDICOM
format format format
Page6Traditional 510k
See-Mode AugmentedReporting Tool,Thyroid
SubjectDevice PredicateDevice ReferenceDevice
See-ModeAugmented BU-CAD(K210670) KoiosDS(K212616)
ReportingTool,Thyroid
(SMART-T)
(K240697)
Output ROIsplacedonthyroid ROIsandlesion Thyroid
nodules contoursplacedon TI-RADSlexicondescriptors
suspicioussoft basedonuser-selectedROIs
TI-RADSlexicondescriptors tissuelesion
TI-RADScategoryaccording
TI-RADScategoryaccording BI-RADSlexicondescriptors totheACRTI-RADSchart
totheACRTI-RADSchart
Aregion-basedscore Adirect,deep-learning
oflesionmalignancy derivedcancerrisk
assessmentthatistranslated
BI-RADScategory intoanoptional
lexicon-specificmodifier.
Thesoftware’sdirect,
non-descriptor-basedcancer
riskassessmentispresented
astheKoios“AIAdapter”that
canbeusedinconjunction
withtheACRTI-RADSorATA
guidelinesfornodulerisk
stratification
Breast
Categoricalandcontinuous
outputs(confidencelevel
indicator)thatalignto
BI-RADScategories
Autoclassificationof
BI-RADSlexicondescriptors
(shapeandorientation)
Operating Client-servertechnology. Client-servertechnology Client-servertechnology
Platform
Image DICOM DICOM DICOM
Format
2Dviewing Yes Yes Yes
capabilities
Image Yes Yes Yes
storageand
report
generation
Page7Traditional 510k
See-Mode AugmentedReporting Tool,Thyroid
6.3. Comparison with Predicate and Reference Devices
Similarities
● Intended Use: The intended use of SMART-T is the same as that of the legally
marketed predicate device, BU-CAD. Both are intended to be used by clinicians
interpreting radiological images to help them localize and characterize soft tissue
lesions.SMART-Tandthepredicatedevicearebothintendedtobeusedconcurrently
with the reading ofimagesandarenotintendedasareplacementforthereviewofa
clinicianortheirclinicaljudgment.
● Target Population: SMART-T, BU-CAD, and Koios DS share the same intended
population. All devices are intended to be used for assisting trained interpreting
cliniciansinanalyzingpatientswithsofttissuelesionsorsuspiciousnodulesthatare
beingreferredfordiagnosticultrasoundexamination.
● Localization and Characterization: See-Mode Augmented ReportingTool,Thyroid
(SMART-T) is similar to BU-CAD, the legally marketed predicate device, in its intent
to localize soft tissue lesions in ultrasound images. While the reference Koios DS
device analyzes thyroid lesions, it relies on users to manually identify the nodules,
whereasthesubjectdeviceautomaticallylocalizesthenodules.
Additionally, similar to the predicate and reference devices, the subject device
characterizes nodules based on lexicon descriptors. The subject device (SMART-T),
predicate device (BU-CAD), and reference device (Koios DS) all use established
classification systemsfortheirultrasonographiclexicondescriptors.Theyallusethe
American College of Radiology Systems for describingsofttissuelesionsornodules.
The ACR atlases provide standardized imaging terminology, report organization,
assessment structure, and a classification system, which enables radiologists to
communicate results clearly and consistently. The predicate BU-CAD device uses
ACR BI-RADS for breast ultrasound images. Both SMART-T and the reference Koios
DSdeviceuseACRTI-RADSforanalyzingandreportingthyroidultrasoundimages.
Both BU-CAD and SMART-T automatically localize soft tissue findings, with the
findings classified in line with lexicon descriptors. Similar to BU-CAD, our subject
device provides automatic regions of interest (ROIs), rather thanmanuallyselected,
to localize thyroid nodules. The ROI highlights the bounding box around the
detectednodulesfortheusertoeasilyreviewandmaketheirownassessment.
● Performance Testing: When comparing clinical validation between SMART-T,
BU-CAD and Koios DS, the devices were evaluated using similar endpoints in their
clinical studies. TheAreaUndertheCurve(AUC)shiftwasusedwhencomparingthe
performanceofuserswithandwithouttheaidofthedevice.
Page8Traditional 510k
See-Mode AugmentedReporting Tool,Thyroid
The number of cases evaluated in the MRMC reader study for BU-CAD was 628,the
number of cases for Koios DS was 650 and the reader study for SMART-T included
600 cases. The number of readers included in the BU-CAD reader study was 16(14
radiologists and 2 breast surgeons), the number of readers for KoiosDSwas15(14
radiologists and 1 endocrinologist) and the number of readers for SMART-T was 18
(allradiologists).
Following the primary endpoint,theAUCshiftbetweenpredicateandsubjectdevice
was similar. Similarly, the MRMC for BU-CAD showed an improvement of readers’
determination of BI-RADS descriptors (Shape, Orientation, Margin, Echo Pattern,
and Posterior Features) for at least one or more subcategories for each descriptor.
The MRMC study for SMART-T, however,showedreaderimprovementinallTI-RADS
descriptors(Composition,Echogenicity,Shape,MarginandEchogenicFoci).
The SMART-T MRMC reader study demonstrated substantially equivalent
performance to BU-CAD and Koios DS by showing similar study design, success
criteriaandperformance.
Differences
● Anatomical Regions: BU-CAD is specifically focused on breast ultrasound images,
whereas See-Mode Augmented Reporting Tool, Thyroid (SMART-T)analyzesthyroid
ultrasound images. This is aligned with our reference device, Koios DS, which
assesses and characterizesbothbreastlesionsandthyroidnodulesusingultrasound
image data. SMART-T localizes thyroid nodules and characterizes the nodule with
their lexicon descriptors (composition, echogenicity, shape, margin, echogenic foci)
inlinewithACRTI-RADS.
● Modality: Contrary to BU-CAD and Koios DS, SMART-T only interprets ultrasound
images. SMART does not analyze mammography images or other multi-modality
digitalimages.
The technological characteristics of the subject device and its predicate and reference
device have been evaluated to determine equivalence. Upon reviewing and comparing
intended use, design, materials, principle of operation, and overall technological
characteristics, the subject device is determined to be substantiallyequivalenttopredicate
andreferencedevices.
Both devices (subject device and predicate) have the same intended use and are indicated
for the same use. The subject device uses standard principles of operation, methods, and
algorithms for processing, measurement, and quantification of the images and is intended
tobeusedbytrainedprofessionals,whichissimilartothepredicateandreferencedevices.
Page9Traditional 510k
See-Mode AugmentedReporting Tool,Thyroid
The comparison of technological characteristics, non-clinical performance data, clinical
data, and software validation data demonstrate that See-Mode Augmented Reporting Tool,
Thyroid (SMART-T) is as safe and effective when compared to the predicate and reference
devices that are currently marketed for similar intended use and indications for use. The
table above provides a comparison between the proposed subject device, the predicate
device,andthereferencedevice.
7. PERFORMANCE DATA - CLINICAL AND BENCH TESTING
The performance of our device has been validated both in an MRMC reader study and
standalone,asdescribedbelow:
● Standalone Study: To evaluate the standalone performance of our device,wherethe
outputofthemodelsaredirectlycomparedagainstgroundtruthlabels.
● Multi-reader Multi-Case (MRMC) Study: To compare the performance of expert
readers (radiologists) with and without the aid of our device. The study evaluated
the readers’ localization and characterisation of thyroid nodules in scenarios both
unaided and aided. In the MRMC study, we had 18 radiologists read 600 casesfrom
600 patients twice, once with the aid of the device and once without. There was a
one-monthwashoutperiodinbetweenthetworeads.
To ensure the generalizability and satisfactory performance of our models on new, unseen
data, all cases in our MRMC studyweresourcedfrominstitutionsorsourcesnotpartofthe
model training or developmentdatasets.Theprecedingresultsofthisstudy,demonstrating
themodels'successwithdatafromnovelinstitutions,havebeenpresented.
The performance of the device was evaluated across different sub-groups of patient sex,
patient age, nodulesize,ultrasoundmachine,datasources(USvs.Non-US),readercategory
(USvs.Non-US),andreaderexperience.
DataSelection
The dataset has been collected retrospectively from thyroid ultrasound images of patients
who have been referred for an ultrasound examination. The study consisted of 600 cases
from unique patients with 74% of the data acquired from the US. The age range is
respective of the target population with an81.5%femalecohort.Theethnicitydistribution
inourdatasetisrepresentativeofthebroaderUSpopulation.
Page10Traditional 510k
See-Mode AugmentedReporting Tool,Thyroid
The cases in the dataset contained both negative and positive biopsy results with all
TI-RADS levels represented. The data is sampled such that the distribution of the data
accounts for patient sex, age, nodule size, malignancy, a priori clinical ACR TI-RADS level
and a minimum sample is present for each subgroup. The data was curated from images
sourced from accepted ultrasound systems, suchasGEHealthcare,PhilipsMedicalSystems
andSiemensMedicalSystems.
Thepatientdistributionofthedataset:
● Patientsex
○ Female:489cases
○ Male:111cases
● Patientage
○ <30years:29cases
○ 30-49years:131cases
○ 50-69years:320cases
○ 70+years:120cases
ReaderSelection
The study consisted of18board-certifiedradiologistswithexperiencerangingfrom0to11
+ years. All readersweretrainedandusedtheAmericanCollegeofRadiologyguidelinesfor
interpreting thyroid ultrasound studies. Each reader was asked to identify the nodule,
select TI-RADS lexicon descriptors, select TI-RADS category, and a nodule suspicion score
withandwithouttheaidofthesubjectdevice.
Establishinggroundtruth
In both the standalone and the MRMC study weevaluatedtheperformanceofoursoftware
on localisation, TI-RADS descriptors, and FNA outcomes.Thegroundtruthingapproachfor
eachisdescribedbelow:
● Ground truth labels of benign or malignant status were assigned to the nodule for
each case, sourced from the reference standard of FNA or 2 year follow-up for
benignstatus.
● The ground truth labels for localisation, ACR TI-RADS lexicon descriptors, and
TI-RADS level agreement were based on the labels of two expert US-boardcertified
radiologists and an adjudicator (also US-board certified radiologist with the most
years ofexperience).Thisallowedforevaluatingtheaccuracyofthereadersinaided
Page11Traditional 510k
See-Mode AugmentedReporting Tool,Thyroid
and unaided fashion, as well asevaluatingthestandaloneperformanceofthedevice
inlocalisationandclassifyingnodulesagainstgroundtruthlabels.
PerformanceimprovementwithLROC
Given that our device is intended for both localisation and characterisation, LROC analysis
together with AULROCandLROCcurvesareessentialforevaluatingtheperformanceofour
device.
The results of the LROC analysis are shown in the table below. We have considered IOU >
0.5 as the criterion for successful location detection in the LROC analysis. In this analysis,
the malignant cases where the detection IOU is below or equalto0.5arepenalisedasfalse
negative.
IOU AverageAidedAUC AverageUnaidedAUC Standalone
Criteria (95%CI) (95%CI) (95%CI)
IOU>0.5 0.758(0.711,0.803) 0.736(0.693,0.780) 0.703(0.642,0.762)
To provide a comprehensive analysis and evaluate the performance of our device with
various IOU thresholds, we have obtained AULROCs for different IOU thresholds ranging
from 0.5 to 0.8 with 0.1 increments as shown in the table below. It was observed that the
use of the device results in an improved AULROC performance for the readers across
different IOU thresholds. Specifically, AULROC is improved significantly when applying
more rigorous IOU criteria (>0.6, >0.7, and >0.8), showing the promise of the device to
improvereaders’performance.
AverageReaderAUC(95%CI)
Difference
Analysis Aided Unaided (Aided–Unaided)
AURLOC
IOU>0.5 0.758(0.711,0.803) 0.736(0.693,0.780) 0.022(-0.012,0.056)
IOU>0.6 0.734(0.682,0.781) 0.682(0.632,0.730) 0.052(0.008,0.093)
IOU>0.7 0.686(0.629,0.740) 0.548(0.490,0.610) 0.138(0.082,0.195)
IOU>0.8 0.593(0.529,0.658) 0.356(0.293,0.423) 0.237(0.168,0.307)
Identificationandlocalisationofnodules
To evaluate the localisation performance of the device, we calculated the average accuracy
of the readers on localisation in aided and unaided scenarios, as well as the standalone
performance. Localisation accuracy for each reader is calculated as the number of cases
Page12Traditional 510k
See-Mode AugmentedReporting Tool,Thyroid
where the reader’s bounding box has an overlap greater than 0.5 with the ground truth,
dividedbythetotalnumberofcases.
AverageAided AverageUnaided Standalone(95%
(95%CI) (95%CI) CI)
Localisation
95.6%(94.1,97.0) 93.6%(92.1,95.0) 95.1%
Accuracy
As demonstratedinthetableabove,theaidofourdeviceresultsinsuperiorperformanceof
the readers for localising thyroid nodules. It was also observed that the results of the
algorithmareconsistentacrossdifferentsub-groups.
Thyroidlexicondescriptors
Aside from localisation, the other output of our device is characterisation of thyroid
nodules according to ACR TI-RADS lexicon descriptors. In the table below, we have
calculated the accuracy of the readers in determining each oftheACRTI-RADSdescriptors
(composition, echogenicity, shape, margin, and echogenic foci). We have alsoevaluatedthe
standalone performance of the device on TI-RADS lexicon descriptors. Asdescribedabove,
the ground truth for the TI-RADS descriptors is the consensus labels of two expert
US-board certified radiologists and an adjudicator (also US-boardcertifiedradiologistwith
themostyearsofexperience).
AverageAided AverageUnaided Standalone(95%
TI-RADDescriptor
(95%CI) (95%CI) CI)
Composition 84.9%(82.2,87.5) 80.4%(77.3,83.4) 86.7%
Echogenicity 77.4%(74.4,80.3) 70.0%(67.0,72.8) 68.2%
Shape 90.8%(88.2,93.1) 86.4%(83.7,88.8) 93.4%
Margin 73.5%(70.2,76.7) 57.3%(53.3,61.2) 58.4%
EchogenicFoci 75.2%(71.9,78.5) 71.1%(67.1,74.9) 70.3%
As can be seen from the table above, the device provides significant improvement and
achieves superiority for characterizing all lexicon descriptors according toACRTI-RADS.It
Page13Traditional 510k
See-Mode AugmentedReporting Tool,Thyroid
was also observed that the results of the algorithm are consistent across different
sub-groups.
Attaining superiority across all TI-RADS descriptors is a strong proof point for the
performance of our device, as it aligns with its primary function and intended use
accordingtotheACRTI-RADSguideline.
TI-RADSlevelagreement
The accuracy of TI-RADS (TR) levels is critical as it directly informs clinical decisions
regarding patient management according to the ACR TI-RADS guideline. To evaluate the
impact of our device on TR level agreement, we have compared the overall TR level
agreement percentage of each of the readers against the ground truth in both aided and
unaided scenarios. As described above, the ground truth for the TI-RADS descriptors and,
therefore the TR level, is based on the consensus labels of two expert US-board certified
radiologists and an adjudicator (also US-board certified radiologist with the most years of
experience).
To further evaluate the level of agreement, we also calculated the agreement for each TR
level (TR-1 to TR-5). The agreement percentage for each TR level for each reader is
calculated by dividing the number of cases where a reader’s TR level matches the ground
truth TR level by the total number of caseswiththatspecificTRlevel.TheaverageTRlevel
agreementisthencalculatedastheaverageoverallthereaders.
AverageAided AverageUnaided Standalone(95%
TI-RADS
(95%CI) (95%CI) CI)
63.8(60.0,67.7)
Overall 60.0%(56.8,63.3) 51.1%(47.8,54.5)
TR-1 59.0%(42.3,74.9) 52.9%(37.3,68.3) 61.9(40.0,82.6)
TR-2 38.1%(31.1,45.6) 31.2%(24.6,38.1) 41.1(31.7,50.4)
TR-3 68.9%(62.6,74.9) 58.8%(52.2,65.4) 71.7(64.9,78.3)
TR-4 61.4%(56.5,66.3) 52.1%(47.2,57.0) 65.5(59.1,71.6)
TR-5 71.3%(61.8,80.5) 62.0%(52.2,71.5) 77.0(66.1,87.3)
Page14Traditional 510k
See-Mode AugmentedReporting Tool,Thyroid
The table above highlights a significantimprovementinTRlevelagreementamongreaders
with the use of the device. It is important to note that TR level agreement has been
improved across all TR levels, from TR-1 to TR-5, with particularly significant gains at
higher TR levels (TR-3, TR-4, and TR-5). Notably, these higher TR levels (TR-3toTR-5)are
the levels that are of high clinical importance with follow-up or FNAconsiderations.Itwas
alsoobservedthattheresultsofthealgorithmareconsistentacrossdifferentsub-groups.
Subgroupanalysis
Subgroup analysis of patient sex (female, male), patient age (<30, 30-49, 50-69, 70+),
nodule size (<10mm, 10-15mm, 15-20mm, 20-25mm, >=25mm), ultrasound machine (GE,
Philips,Samsung,Siemens,Canon/Toshiba),readercategory(US/Canada,Non-US/Canada),
reader experience (0-3 years, 4-7 years, 8-10 years, >=11 years), and source of data (US,
non-US) from the MRMC reader study were performed. The readers aided by SMART-T
achievedconsistentperformanceacrossallofthesubgroups.
Conclusion
The results of our MRMCreaderstudyshowsimprovementinreaderperformancewiththe
aid ofourdevice.Basedontheseresultsitwasobservedthattheuseofthedeviceresultsin
superior performance of the readers on nodule localisation, TI-RADS lexicon
characterisation, and TR level agreement. The use of the device can also improve the
performanceofthereaderswithregardstomalignancyandbenignitystatus.
The standalone performance of the device is also on-par with the aided use of our device,
indicating the validity of our algorithms. The outputs of our study are in line with the
intendeduseofSee-ModeAugmentedReportingTool,Thyroid.
8. NON-CLINICAL DATA
The design and development of SMART-T has been implemented according to recognised
standards. See-Mode Technologies has performed software verification and validation
testing for the subject device according to the FDA’s guidance document “Content of
Premarket Submissions for Device Software Functions,” as well as “IEC 62304:2006/AC:
2015 - Medical Device Software - Software Lifecycle Processes”. Special Controls were
added according to 21 CFR 892.2090, “DEN180005 Evaluation of automatic class III
designationforOsteoDetect–Decisionsummarywithspecialcontrols”.
Page15Traditional 510k
See-Mode AugmentedReporting Tool,Thyroid
The risk analysis was completed and thehazardriskanalysishasbeensubmittedaspartof
this application. Ithasbeenobservedthatalltherisksidentifiedwiththesubjectdeviceare
acceptable and have been reduced as far as possible in accordance with ISO 14971:2019
Medicaldevices-Applicationofriskmanagementtomedicaldevices.
9. CONCLUSIONS
A detailed analysis has been conducted between See-Mode Augmented Reporting Tool,
Thyroid (SMART-T) and its predicate and reference devices. It is noted that no new
additional questions of safety and effectiveness are raised by these technologies. Through
reviewing the similarities and differences of the intendeduse,technologicalcharacteristics
and principles of operation, as well as assessing the clinical and non-clinical performance
data, See-Mode Augmented Reporting Tool, Thyroid (SMART-T) is as safe, as effective and
performsaswellasthepredicateandreferencedevices.
Page16