June 25, 2024
EOS imaging
Moran Celestin
Design Quality and Regulatory Affairs Specialist
10 rue Mercoeur
Paris, 75011
France
Re: K240582
Trade/Device Name: VEA Align; spineEOS
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH, LLZ
Dated: May 17, 2024
Received: May 17, 2024
Dear Moran Celestin:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.06.10
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK240582 - Moran Celestin Page 2
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
for
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K240582
Device Name
VEA Align
spineEOS
Indications for Use (Describe)
VEA Align:
This cloud-based software is intended for orthopedic applications in both pediatric and adult populations.
2D X-ray images acquired in EOS imaging’s imaging systems is the foundation and resource to display the interactive
landmarks overlayed on the frontal and lateral images. These landmarks are available for users to assess patient-specific
global alignment.
For additional assessment, alignment parameters compared to published normative values may be available.
This product serves as a tool to aid in the analysis of spinal deformities and degenerative diseases, and lower limb
alignment disorders and deformities through precise angle and length measurements. It is suitable for use with adult and
pediatric patients aged 7 years and older.
Clinical judgment and experience are required to properly use the software.
spineEOS:
spineEOS is indicated for assisting healthcare professionals with preoperative planning of spine surgeries. The product
provides access to EOS images with associated 3D datasets and measurements. spineEOS includes surgical planning tools
that enable users to define a patient specific surgical strategy.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFK240582
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
VEA Align / spineEOS
510(k) Summary / K240582
Page 1 of 18Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
K240582 - VEA Align / spineEOS
This 510(k) summary of safety and effectiveness is being submitted in accordance with the
requirements of 21 CFR 807.92.
1 SUBMITTER
EOS imaging
10 rue Mercoeur
Paris, France 75011
Phone: +33 1 55 25 60 60
Fax: +33 1 55 25 60 61
Contact Person: Moran CELESTIN
Design Quality and Regulatory Affairs Specialist
EOS imaging
Contact Phone: +33 1 55 25 60 60
Date Summary Prepared: June 24, 2024
2 DEVICES
2.1 VEA Align
Trade Name: VEA Align
Common or Usual Name: Cloud-based software
Classification Name: Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
(21 C.F.R. § 892.2050)
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
2.2 spineEOS
Trade Name: spineEOS
Common or Usual Name: Cloud-based software
Classification Name: System, image processing, radiological
(21 C.F.R. § 892.2050)
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: LLZ
3 LEGALLY MARKETED PREDICATE DEVICES
3.1 VEA Align
510(k) Product Name Clearance Date
K231917 VEA Align (primary predicate) January 2024
K172346 sterEOS (secondary predicate) June 2018
Page 2 of 18Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
K240582 - VEA Align / spineEOS
3.2 spineEOS
510(k) Product Name Clearance Date
K232086 spineEOS October 2023
4 DEVICE DESCRIPTION
4.1 VEA Align
VEA Align is a software indicated for assisting healthcare professionals with global alignment
assessment through clinical parameters computation.
The product uses biplanar 2D X-ray images, exclusively generated by EOS imaging's EOS
(K152788) and EOSedge (K202394) systems and generates an initial placement of the patient
anatomic landmarks on the images using a machine learning-based algorithm. The user may
adjust the landmarks to align with the patient's anatomy. Landmark locations require user
validation. The clinical parameters communicated to the user are inferred from the landmarks and
are recalculated as the user adjusts the landmarks. 3D datasets may be exported for use in
spineEOS for surgical planning.
The product is hosted on a cloud infrastructure and relies on VEA Portal for support capabilities,
such as user access control and data access. 2D X-ray image transmissions from healthcare
institutions to the cloud are managed by VEA Portal. VEA Portal is a Class I 510(k)-exempt device
(LMD).
4.2 spineEOS
spineEOS is a software indicated for assisting healthcare professionals with preoperative
planning of spine surgeries. EOS images (generated from EOS imaging’s acquisition system)
and associated 3D datasets are used as inputs of the software. The product manages clinical
measurements and allows user to access surgical planning tools to define a patient specific
surgical strategy. The product is indicated for adolescent and adult patients.
5 INDICATIONS FOR USE
5.1 VEA Align
This cloud-based software is intended for orthopedic applications in both pediatric and adult
populations.
2D X-ray images acquired in EOS imaging’s imaging systems is the foundation and resource to
display the interactive landmarks overlayed on the frontal and lateral images. These landmarks
are available for users to assess patient-specific global alignment.
For additional assessment, alignment parameters compared to published normative values may
be available.
Page 3 of 18Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
K240582 - VEA Align / spineEOS
This product serves as a tool to aid in the analysis of spinal deformities, degenerative diseases,
and lower limb alignment disorders and deformities through precise angle and length
measurements. It is suitable for use with adult and pediatric patients aged 7 years and older.
Clinical judgment and experience are required to properly use the software.
5.2 spineEOS
spineEOS is indicated for assisting healthcare professionals with preoperative planning of spine
surgeries. The product provides access to EOS images with associated 3D datasets and
measurements. spineEOS includes surgical planning tools that enable users to define a patient
specific surgical strategy.
6 TECHNOLOGICAL COMPARISON TO PREDICATES
The subject devices were compared to their respective predicate devices in intended use,
indications for use, design, function and technology and it was demonstrated that they are
substantially equivalent. Any technological differences within this bundled 510(k), between the
subject devices and the predicate devices, do not impact substantial equivalence, or safety and
effectiveness.
Page 4 of 18Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
K240582 - VEA Align / spineEOS
Table 1: Summary of Predicate and Subject VEA Align Device Characteristics to Demonstrate Substantial Equivalence
Primary Predicate Secondary Predicate
Substantially
Characteristic Subject VEA Align
Equivalent?
VEA Align (K231917) sterEOS (K172346)
Indication for Use This cloud-based software is The sterEOS Workstation is This cloud-based software is YES
intended for orthopedic intended for use in the fields of intended for orthopedic Same as VEA Align.
applications in both pediatric musculoskeletal radiology and applications in both pediatric
and adult populations. orthopedics in both pediatric and and adult populations.
2D X-ray images acquired in adult populations as a general 2D X-ray images acquired in
EOS imaging’s imaging systems device for acceptance, transfer, EOS imaging’s imaging systems
is the foundation and resource display, storage, and digital is the foundation and resource
to display the interactive processing of 2D X-ray images to display the interactive
landmarks overlayed on the of the musculoskeletal system landmarks overlayed on the
frontal and lateral images. including interactive 2D frontal and lateral images.
These landmarks are available measurement tools. These landmarks are available
for users to assess patient- When using 2D X-ray images for users to assess patient-
specific global alignment. obtained with the EOS imaging specific global alignment.
For additional assessment, EOS system, sterEOS For additional assessment,
alignment parameters compared Workstation provides interactive alignment parameters compared
to published normative values 3D measurement tools: to published normative values
may be available.  To aid in the analysis of may be available.
This product serves as a tool to scoliosis and related disorders This product serves as a tool to
aid in the analysis of spinal and deformities of the spine in aid in the analysis of spinal
deformities, degenerative adult patients as well as deformities and degenerative
diseases, lower limb alignment pediatric patients. The 3D diseases, and lower limb
disorders, and deformities measurement tools include alignment disorders and
through precise angle and interactive analysis based deformities through precise
length measurements. It is either on identification of angle and length
suitable for use with adult and anatomical landmarks for measurements. It is suitable for
pediatric patients aged 7 years postural assessment, or on a use with adult and pediatric
and older. model of bone structures patients aged 7 years and older.
derived from an a priori image
data set from 175 patients (91
normal patients, 47 patients
Page 5 of 18Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
K240582 - VEA Align / spineEOS
Primary Predicate Secondary Predicate
Substantially
Characteristic Subject VEA Align
Equivalent?
VEA Align (K231917) sterEOS (K172346)
Clinical judgment and with moderate idiopathic Clinical judgment and
experience are required to scoliosis and 37 patients with experience are required to
properly use the software. severe idiopathic scoliosis), properly use the software.
and dry isolated vertebrae
data for spine modeling. The
model of bone structures is
not intended for use to assess
individual vertebral
abnormalities and is indicated
only for patients 7 years and
older. For postural
assessment, a set of
comparative tools is provided
allowing the comparison of
performed measurements to
reference values for patients
over 18 years old.
 To aid in the analysis of lower
limbs alignment and related
disorders and deformities
based on angle and length
measurements. The 3D
measurement tools include
interactive analysis based
either on identification of lower
limb alignment landmarks or
as for the spine, on a model of
bone structures derived from
an a priori image data set.
The model of bone structures
is not intended for use to
assess individual bone
Page 6 of 18Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
K240582 - VEA Align / spineEOS
Primary Predicate Secondary Predicate
Substantially
Characteristic Subject VEA Align
Equivalent?
VEA Align (K231917) sterEOS (K172346)
abnormalities. The 3D
package including model-
based measurements and
torsion angles is indicated
only for patients 15 years or
older. Only the 2D/3D ruler is
indicated for measurements in
patients younger than 15
years old.
Contraindications VEA Align is contraindicated for The 3D spine modeling software VEA Align is contraindicated for YES
cases with vertebrae with severe does not allow modeling of cases with vertebrae with severe Same as VEA Align.
congenital deformities (e.g., vertebrae with severe congenital congenital deformities (e.g.,
hemivertebrae, spina bifida, etc.) deformities (e.g. hemivertebrae, hemivertebrae, spina bifida, etc.)
and supernumerary/missing spina bifida, etc.). The modeling and supernumerary/missing
vertebrae. of a spine that has a vertebrae vertebrae.
with a congenital deformity may
be generated leaving out the
vertebrae with the congenital
deformity.
The 3D models delivered by the
sterEOS software can only be
used for diagnostic purposes
with the corresponding 2D
images. They are designed to
display the spatial relationship
between anatomical structures
and are unable to highlight local
bone alterations such as:
 bones with significant
changes in geometry following
surgical intervention,
Page 7 of 18Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
K240582 - VEA Align / spineEOS
Primary Predicate Secondary Predicate
Substantially
Characteristic Subject VEA Align
Equivalent?
VEA Align (K231917) sterEOS (K172346)
 fractures,
 osteophytes,
 fibrocartilage calluses.
The lower limb 3D model is
based on an adult type and, as a
result, is not suited to pediatric
lower limb 3D reconstruction.
3D modeling can become
inaccurate and even impossible
when anatomical structures
cannot be identified as such in
the following cases:
 prostheses or instruments
masking or replacing
anatomical markers,
 certain pathological conditions
that alter the bone
composition, such as
osteoporosis,
 impossibility to differentiate
the internal condyle from the
external condyle or the
internal tibial plate from the
external tibial plate.
Regulatory Class II Class II Class II YES
Class/Code
QIH LLZ QIH
(21 CFR 892.2050) (21 CFR 892.2050) (21 CFR 892.2050)
Page 8 of 18Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
K240582 - VEA Align / spineEOS
Primary Predicate Secondary Predicate
Substantially
Characteristic Subject VEA Align
Equivalent?
VEA Align (K231917) sterEOS (K172346)
Device Classification Automated Radiological Image System, Image Processing, Automated Radiological Image YES,
Name Processing Software Radiological Processing Software Same as VEA Align.
Operating System Windows + MAC Windows Windows + MAC YES
User Population VEA Align is designed for Clinicians (radiologists, VEA Align Alignment YES
surgeons and clinical staff, such orthopedists, radiographers), 3D Assessment mode is designed Alignment Assessment
as physician assistants, who Services persons, which have for surgeons and clinical staff, mode is equivalent to
have been trained to use the been trained to use the such as physician assistants, predicate VEA Align and
application. application. who have been trained to use 3D Mode is equivalent to
the application. predicate sterEOS (3D
VEA Align 3D mode is designed Services users).
for 3D Services team members.
Target Population The device is indicated only for 3D measurement tools are used The device is indicated only for YES
patients 7 years and older. on adult and pediatric patients patients 7 years and older. Same as VEA Align.
over 7 years of age who suffer
from scoliosis and deformed
spine pathology and for patients
over 15 years of age with
deformed lower limb pathology.
Software Global alignment assessments Global alignment assessments Global alignment assessments YES
Functionalities /
Includes landmarks associated Includes landmarks associated Includes landmarks associated YES
Modalities
with vertebral endplates needed with vertebral endplates needed with vertebral endplates needed
to calculate coronal and sagittal to calculate coronal and sagittal to calculate coronal and sagittal
clinical parameters. These clinical parameters. These clinical parameters. These
landmarks are adjustable by the landmarks are adjustable by the landmarks are adjustable by the
user. user. user.
Includes landmarks associated Includes landmarks associated Includes landmarks associated YES
with the pelvis and lower limbs with the pelvis and lower limbs with the pelvis and lower limbs
needed to calculate coronal and needed to calculate coronal and needed to calculate coronal and
sagittal clinical parameters. sagittal clinical parameters. sagittal clinical parameters.
Page 9 of 18Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
K240582 - VEA Align / spineEOS
Primary Predicate Secondary Predicate
Substantially
Characteristic Subject VEA Align
Equivalent?
VEA Align (K231917) sterEOS (K172346)
These landmarks are adjustable These landmarks are adjustable These landmarks are adjustable
by the user. by the user. by the user.
Provides normative values used Provides normative values used Provides normative values used YES
to assess patients’ global to assess patients’ global to assess patients’ global
alignment alignment alignment
Provides color-coded clinical Provides color-coded clinical Provides color-coded clinical YES
parameters to display variance parameters to display variance parameters to display variance
from the defined normative from the defined normative from the defined normative
values values values
Image Manipulation 2D images display and basic 2D images display and basic 2D images display and basic YES
Functions manipulation (zoom, panning) manipulation (zoom, panning, manipulation (zoom, panning) Same as VEA Align.
distance, and angles
measurements)
Measurement Distances and Angles Distances and Angles Distances and Angles YES
Functions
Algorithms Patient-specific clinical Patient-specific clinical Patient-specific clinical YES
parameters and calculations parameters and calculations parameters and calculations
based on published literature. based on published literature. based on published literature.
3D Reconstruction Alignment mode: The 3D model The 3D model is deformed Alignment mode: The 3D model YES
Model supports the initial placement of manually by the user through supports the initial placement of Alignment Assessment
the patient anatomic landmarks control points up to matching the patient anatomic landmarks mode is equivalent to
on the images using a machine accurately the X-ray contours. on the images using a machine predicate VEA Align. In
learning-based algorithm. It is
learning-based algorithm. It is the 3D mode, the 3D
not displayed to the user and as
not displayed to the user and as reconstruction model is
such it is not part of the mode
such it is not part of the device outputs. an output of the device
outputs. as for the secondary
3D mode: The 3D reconstruction
predicate, sterEOS. The
model is initialized by an AI
difference between the
algorithm and then deformed
manually by the user through secondary predicate
control points up to matching sterEOS and the subject
Page 10 of 18Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
K240582 - VEA Align / spineEOS
Primary Predicate Secondary Predicate
Substantially
Characteristic Subject VEA Align
Equivalent?
VEA Align (K231917) sterEOS (K172346)
accurately the X-ray contours. VEA Align is the
The 3D reconstruction model is automatic initialization
an output of the 3D mode. using an AI algorithm for
VEA Align 3D model
reconstruction
generation. This
difference allows the user
to gain time
duringmanual
adjustment. This
difference does not
prevent VEA Align from
achieving its intended
purpose and does not
create a new risk in VEA
Align. Therefore, this
difference does not affect
device safety or
effectiveness.
User Interface Computer Computer Computer YES
Obtaining an image Transferred from other devices Transferred from other devices Transferred from other devices YES
Software Cloud-based software Standalone Cloud-based software YES
Environment Same as VEA Align.
Human Intervention Required Required Required YES
for interpretation and
manipulation of
images
Control of life-saving None None None YES
devices
Page 11 of 18Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
K240582 - VEA Align / spineEOS
Table 2: Summary of Predicate and Subject spineEOS Device Characteristics to Demonstrate Substantial Equivalence
Predicate Device Subject Device
Characteristic Substantially Equivalent?
spineEOS (K232086) spineEOS
Indications for Use spineEOS software is indicated for assisting spineEOS is indicated for assisting healthcare YES
healthcare professionals with preoperative professionals with preoperative planning of Despite different wording, the
planning of spine surgeries. spineEOS provides spine surgeries. The product provides access to objective and intent of both devices
access to EOS images with associated 3D EOS images with associated 3D datasets and are the same.
datasets and measurements. spineEOS measurements. spineEOS includes surgical
includes surgical planning tools that enable planning tools that enable users to define a
users to define a patient specific surgical patient specific surgical strategy.
strategy.
Contraindications spineEOS is not intended to be used in the The surgical planning application is YES
following cases: contraindicated for cases with vertebrae with The product’s contraindications
Patients under the age of 7. severe congenital deformities (e.g., come from the device providing the
Patients with vertebrae with congenital hemivertebrae, spina bifida, etc.) and input data.
supernumerary/missing vertebrae.
deformities (e.g., hemivertebrae, spina bifida,
etc.).
The 3D models delivered by sterEOS can only
be used for diagnostic purposes in association
with the corresponding 2D images. They are
intended for the visualization of the spatial
relationship between anatomical structures and
do not allow the identification of local bone
alterations such as:
Bones with a significant change in geometry
following surgery,
Fractures,
Osteophytes
Fibrocartilage calluses
Regulatory Class II Class II YES
Class/Code LLZ LLZ
(21 CFR 892.2050) (21 CFR 892.2050)
Page 12 of 18Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
K240582 - VEA Align / spineEOS
Predicate Device Subject Device
Characteristic Substantially Equivalent?
spineEOS (K232086) spineEOS
Device System, image processing, radiological System, image processing, radiological YES
Classification
Name
User Population spineEOS can only be used by a trained user The surgical planning application can only be YES
including: used by a trained user including:
Spine surgeons to define and validate the Spine surgeons to define and validate the
surgical plan. surgical plan.
EOS staff and implant distributors to define and EOS staff and implant distributors to define and
save the optional pre-planning. save the optional pre-planning.
Target Population The device is recommended in the preoperative The product is recommended in the YES
planning of primary and revision spine surgeries preoperative planning of primary and revision
for: spine surgeries for:
Degenerative spine and adult spinal deformity. Degenerative spine and adult spinal deformity.
Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis (AIS) patients. Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis (AIS) patients.
Hardware and Web Browsers: Web Browsers: YES
Software With Windows 10 or 11: Google Chrome in With Windows 10 or 11: Google Chrome in Safari has been removed for
Requirement version 111 or higher, and Edge in version version 121 or higher, and Edge in version the subject device
111 or higher. 121 or higher.
With Mac OS Monterey or Ventura: Google With Mac OS Monterey or Ventura: Google
Chrome in version 111 or higher, and Safari Chrome in version 121 or higher.
in version 16.2 or higher.
PC Configuration: PC Configuration:
A stable high speed internet connection is A stable high speed internet connection is
required: DSL 100Mb/s connection or higher, required: DSL 100Mb/s connection or higher,
Wi-Fi or Ethernet. Wi-Fi or Ethernet.
Screen Resolution: Screen Resolution:
The minimum screen resolution ensuring full The minimum screen resolution ensuring full
display of the interface is 1600 x 900. display of the interface is 1366 x 768.
Input Data Patient’s information Patient’s information YES
X-rays images X-rays images
3D landmarks of the spine generated from VEA 3D landmarks of the spine generated from VEA
Align Align
Product Workflow Model Validation: allow users to validate or 3D spine reconstruction confirmation: allow YES.
reject the 3D landmarks. users to accept the 3D spine representation and The name of the “Model
associated landmarks, or reject the 3D spine Validation” step has been
changed in the subject
Page 13 of 18Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
K240582 - VEA Align / spineEOS
Predicate Device Subject Device
Characteristic Substantially Equivalent?
spineEOS (K232086) spineEOS
Preoperative: allow user to consult the representation and associated landmarks and spineEOS to conform with the
preoperative state of the patient provide feedback on corrective adjustments. type of input data
Planning: allow user to define patient specific Preoperative: allow user to consult the
surgical strategy preoperative state of the patient
Rod: allow user to define the design of rods Planning: allow user to define patient specific
surgical strategy
Rod: allow user to define the design of rods
Tools Available for Segmental Alignment Segmental Alignment YES
Planning Interbody Implant Interbody Implant
Osteotomy Osteotomy
Spondylolisthesis Spondylolisthesis
Rod Curvature Management Rod Curvature Management
Software Obtains an image and 3D model transferred Obtains an image and 3D model transferred YES
Functionalities / from other devices from other devices
Modalities Provides normative values used to follow the Provides normative values used to follow the YES
impact of the planning on the patient impact of the planning on the patient
alignment alignment
Provides color-coded clinical parameters to Provides color-coded clinical parameters to YES
display variance from the defined normative display variance from the defined normative
values values
Requires human intervention for Requires human intervention for YES
interpretation and manipulation of images interpretation and manipulation of images
Image Manipulation 2D images and 3D model display and basic 2D images and 3D spine display and basic YES
Functions manipulation (zoom, panning, and angles manipulation (zoom, panning, angles The wording referring to the
measurements, plumbline, and possibility to measurements, plumbline, and possibility to representation of the spine in 3D
add comments on the image) add comments on the image) differs from the predicate to more
precisely describe the spine
representation. However, it
remains the same between the
predicate and the subject
spineEOS.
Measurement Distances and Angles Distances and Angles YES.
Functions
User Interface Computer Computer YES
Page 14 of 18Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
K240582 - VEA Align / spineEOS
Predicate Device Subject Device
Characteristic Substantially Equivalent?
spineEOS (K232086) spineEOS
Software Cloud-based software Cloud-based software YES
Environment
Clinical Parameters Pelvic Tilt (PT) Pelvic Tilt (PT) YES
Computation Sacral Slope (SS) Sacral Slope (SS) Pelvic Axial Rotation has been
Pelvic Incidence (PI) Pelvic Incidence (PI) removed from the subject device.
Pelvic Obliquity (PO) Pelvic Obliquity (PO) Cotyle Axis allows determination of
Pelvic Axial Rotation Sagittal Vertical Axis (SVA) the patient frame in which clinical
Sagittal Vertical Axis (SVA) C7-CSL parameters are computed. Pelvic
C7-CSL PI-LL Axial Rotation is computed based
PI-LL T1 Pelvic Angle (TPA) on Cotyle Axis. So, in the patient
T1 Pelvic Angle (TPA) Cobb Angle frame the value is always 0 for this
Cobb Angle Kyphosis/Lordosis Angle parameter.
Kyphosis/Lordosis Angle Knee Flexion/Extension Angle
Knee Flexion/Extension Angle Lordosis Percentage Distributions
Lordosis Percentage Distributions Spondylolisthesis grade (i.e., Slippage
Spondylolisthesis grade (i.e., Slippage percentage)
percentage)
Control of Life- None None YES
Saving Devices
Page 15 of 18Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
K240582 - VEA Align / spineEOS
7 PERFORMANCE DATA
Nonclinical performance testing performed on the subject devices, VEA Align and spineEOS,
supports substantial equivalence to their respective predicate devices. The following V&V testing
was performed on both subject devices:
A. Verifications activities cover the following:
 Design input review
 Unit testing
 Software integration
 System integration
B. Verification performance test:
To assess the standalone performance of the AI algorithm of the VEA Align, the test was
performed with:
 A dedicated test data set containing different data from the training data set.
Specifically, the test data set was not a sampling of the training data set, has
never been used for the algorithm training or for tunning the algorithm and
leakage between training and test data sets did not occur.
 For each patient of this data set, a ground truth EOS 3DServices reconstruction
(model) from sterEOS Workstation (K172346)that was available for comparison
with the VEA Align reconstruction generated by the AI algorithm.
 A global acceptance criterion to assess the performance of the AI algorithm
predictions regarding the ground truth.
 Subgroup analyses to assess bias and generalizability.
Training data information
The AI algorithm was trained using 10,376 X-ray images and a total of 5,188
corresponding 3D reconstructions. This training data set contained images which were
collected from EOS (K152788) and EOSedge (K202394) systems at a variety of sites from
2007-2023. This population characteristics cover the intended use population. The data
set ensures a variety of data for the different clinical metrics: scoliosis, postural balance,
degenerative disease and spine surgery implant (preoperative and postoperative). The
images were also acquired using different radiation exposure parameters and with
different fields of view.
Testing data information
The testing data set consisted of 538 patients and the demographic characteristics cover
the intended use population. The data set includes images from EOS (K152788) and
EOSedge (K202394) systems.
Page 16 of 18Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
K240582 - VEA Align / spineEOS
Subgroup definition (generalizability)
Test data was divided according to the subgroups listed below. The subgroups are
intended to demonstrate the generalizability of the algorithm.
 Demographics
o Age
o Gender
 Clinical Metrics:
o Without spinal conditions
o Spinal Deformity
 Scoliosis severity
 Postural balance severity
o Degenerative Disease
o Spine Surgery Implant (preoperative and postoperative)
 Image Acquisition
o Equipment model
o Radiation exposure parameters
o Field of view
 Data Site Location:
o US vs. OUS
o Different US states
A randomized sampling was used for each category to include an equal number of cases
within each subgroup.
Acceptance criteria
For spinal landmark accuracy the metric computed was the Euclidean distance and for
spinal mesh accuracy the metric computed was point to surface distance. The acceptance
criteria for both landmark and mesh accuracy errors was defined as:
 Median error ≤ 3 mm
 3rd Quartile ≤ 5 mm
Testing summary
Direct comparison between skeletal landmark locations between the subject device and
predicate VEA align ( K231917) met acceptance criteria for algorithm performance.
Direct comparison between additional spinal landmarks location between the subject
device and predicate sterEOS Workstation (K172346) met acceptance criteria for
algorithm performance.
Direct comparison between the 3D thoraco-lumbar mesh from subject device and the 3D
thoraco-lumbar mesh from the predicate sterEOS Workstation (K172346) met the
acceptance criteria demonstrating substantial equivalence of the subject device.
Page 17 of 18Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
K240582 - VEA Align / spineEOS
All those tests were performed over the whole population and for each sub-group
mentioned before in order to prove the generalizability of the device performance across
the different populations.
All the studies performed indicate acceptable performances of the algorithm for its
intended population.
C. Validation activities cover the following:
 Validation of the multifunctional requirements in terms of design.
 Usability testing was performed to demonstrate that the subject devices can be
used safely by assessing and mitigating usability risks.
 Validation of the reproducibility and accuracy of clinical parameter outputs.
8 CONCLUSION
Based on the information provided in this 510(k) submission, it was determined that the subject
devices, VEA Align and spineEOS, are substantially equivalent to the legally marketed predicate
devices with regards to indications for use, intended use, design, technology, and performance.
Page 18 of 18