J
July 2, 2024
Tyto Care Ltd.
Stella Raizelman Perry
RA&QA Director
14 Beni Gaon Street
Netanya, 4250803
Israel
Re: K240555
Trade/Device Name: Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 868.1900
Regulation Name: Diagnostic Pulmonary-Function Interpretation Calculator
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: PHZ
Dated: May 31, 2024
Received: May 31, 2024
Dear Stella Raizelman Perry:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
FDA's substantial equivalence determination also included the review and clearance of your Predetermined
Change Control Plan (PCCP). Under section 515C(b)(1) of the Act, a new premarket notification is not
required for a change to a device cleared under section 510(k) of the Act, if such change is consistent with an
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.07.00
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK240555 - Stella Raizelman Perry Page 2
established PCCP granted pursuant to section 515C(b)(2) of the Act. Under 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3), a new
premarket notification is required if there is a major change or modification in the intended use of a device,
or if there is a change or modification in a device that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of
the device, e.g., a significant change or modification in design, material, chemical composition, energy
source, or manufacturing process. Accordingly, if deviations from the established PCCP result in a major
change or modification in the intended use of the device, or result in a change or modification in the device
that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, then a new premarket notification
would be required consistent with section 515C(b)(1) of the Act and 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3). Failure to submit
such a premarket submission would constitute adulteration and misbranding under sections 501(f)(1)(B) and
502(o) of the Act, respectively.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K240555 - Stella Raizelman Perry Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Binoy J. Digitally signed by Binoy J.
Mathews -S
Mathews -S Date: 2024.07.02 14:14:26
-04'00'
For
Rachana Visaria
Assistant Director
DHT1C: Division of Sleep Disordered
Breathing, Respiratory and
Anesthesia Devices
OHT1: Office of Ophthalmic, Anesthesia,
Respiratory, ENT and Dental Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 06/30/2023
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K240555
Device Name
Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection
Indications for Use (Describe)
The Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection is an over-the-counter artificial intelligence (AI) enabled decision support
software system used in the evaluation of lung sounds in adults and pediatrics (2 years and older). It automatically
analyzes the acoustic signal of the lung as recorded by the FDA 510k cleared compatible Tyto Stethoscope and identifies
recordings where a specific abnormal lung sound suggestive of “Crackle” is suspected. It is not intended to detect other
abnormal or normal lung sounds. A licensed health care professional’s advice is required to understand the meaning of the
Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection result. Healthcare providers should consider the device result in conjunction with
recording and other relevant patient data.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (6/20) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(k) Summary
Submitter Name and Tyto Care Ltd.
Address: 14 Beni Gaon Street Netanya, Israel,
4250803
Contact Person: Stella Raizelman Perry RA & QA
Director
Email: stellar@tytocare.com
Phone Number: +972 72-2210750
Fax Number: +972 72-2210752
Establishment 3012678246
Registration
Number:
Date Prepared: July 02, 2024
Device Trade Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection
Name(s):
Device Common Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection
Name:
Classification: Name: Diagnostic pulmonary-function interpretation
calculator
Product code: PHZ
Regulation No: 21 CFR 868.1900
Class: II
Panel: Anesthesiology
Primary Predicate Device(s):
Device name 510(k) No. Date of Clearance
Tyto Insights for Wheeze K232237 December 13, 2023
Detection
Reference Device(s):
Device name 510(k) No. Date of Clearance
VRIxp K091732 March 04, 2010
1Intended use / indication for use statement
The Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection is an over-the-counter artificial intelligence (AI)
enabled decision support software system used in the evaluation of lung sounds in adults
and pediatrics (2 years and older). It automatically analyzes the acoustic signal of the lung
as recorded by the FDA 510k cleared compatible Tyto Stethoscope and identifies recordings
where a specific abnormal lung sound suggestive of “Crackle” is suspected. It is not intended
to detect other abnormal or normal lung sounds. A licensed health care professional’s advice
is required to understand the meaning of the Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection result.
Healthcare providers should consider the device result in conjunction with recording and
other relevant patient data.
Device description
The Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection is a web-based (AI) enabled software system
designed to aid in the clinical assessment of lungs auscultation sound data by analyzing
recorded lung sounds to determine whether a Crackle is detected within the recorded sound
data. The Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection Software is intended to process recordings
from the FDA-cleared compatible Tyto Stethoscope (Tyto Stethoscope, K181612). The
acquisition of the acoustic data (recordings) is carried out by a professional user in a
clinical environment or by a lay- user in a non-medical environment, in compliance with the
labeling of the Tyto Stethoscope. The system is composed of the following sub-systems:
1. The Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection Application Server (APS) communicates with
the Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection Algorithm Server (ALS) and implements an
application programming interface (API) for communication with the telehealth server.
2. The Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection Algorithm Server (ALS) receives an audio file
as input and returns an analysis result of positive or negative regarding whether a
Crackles was detected as output.
3. The Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection Web Server (WBS) provides a graphic
indication whether a Crackles is detected in the recording. It can be utilized both in
patient and clinician side.
All the software subsystems (servers and storage) are hosted in the cloud and communicate
through IP network.
2Substantial Equivalence to Predicate Devices
The following table compares the Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection to the predicate and reference device.
Table 1. Substantial Equivalence Summary
Device Primary Predicate device Reference device Summary
Device Name Tyto Insights for Crackles Tyto Insights for Wheeze VRIxp NA
Detection Detection
Device Tyto Care Ltd. Tyto Care Ltd. Deep Breeze Ltd. NA
Manufacturer
510(k) Number TBD K232237 K091732 NA
Device Class Class II Class II Class II Same as the predicate
device.
Review Panel Anesthesiology Anesthesiology Cardiovascular Same as the primary
Diagnostic Devices predicate device.
Product code PHZ PHZ OCR Same as the primary
predicate device.
Regulation number 21 CFR 868.1900 21 CFR 868.1900 21 CFR 870.1875 Same as the primary
predicate device.
Device Abnormal breath sound Abnormal breath sound Lung sound monitor Same as the primary
Classification Name device device predicate device.
3Device Primary Predicate device Reference device Summary
Intended use and The “Tyto Insights for The “Tyto Insights for The VRIxp is intended Same intended use as
indication for use Crackles Detection” is an Wheeze Detection” is an for monitoring and the primary predicate
over-the-counter artificial recording lung sounds device and similar
over-the-counter artificial
intelligence (AI) enabled and automatic detection indication for use as the
intelligence (AI) enabled
decision support software of crackles and wheezes. reference device.
decision support software
system used in the When interpreted by
system used in the
evaluation of lung sounds physicians with general Both the predicate
in adults and pediatrics (2 evaluation of lung sounds medical training and device and the subject
years and older). It in adults and pediatrics (2 experience, the VRIxp device have the same
automatically analyses the years and older). It aids in diagnosis and intended use in that
acoustic signal of the lung patient management. The both are intended to
automatically analyses the
as recorded by the FDA VRIxp is intended to be detect specific and
acoustic signal of the lung
cleared compatible Tyto used in healthcare abnormal breath sounds
as recorded by the FDA
Stethoscope and identifies facilities on adults, in the same intended
recordings where a cleared compatible Tyto adolescents, and /or patient population
specific abnormal lung Stethoscope and identifies children over the height (adult and pediatric) by
sound suggestive of recordings where a specific of 2 feet 9 inches. the same user [Health
“Crackle” is suspected. It Care Professional
abnormal lung sound
is not intended to detect (HCP)] when self-
suggestive of “Wheeze” is
other abnormal or normal administered by patient
suspected. It is not
lung sounds. A licensed and/or the HCPs. Both
intended to detect other
health care professional’s devices are only
advice is required to abnormal or normal lung intended to be
understand the meaning of sounds. A licensed health interpreted by HCP and
the Tyto Insights for care professional’s advice HCP advice is required
Crackles Detection result. for the patient to
is required to understand
Healthcare providers understand their result.
the meaning of the Tyto
should consider the device Both are labeled OTC.
Insights for Wheeze
result in conjunction with
Detection result.
recording and other The subject device is
relevant patient data. Healthcare providers indicated to detect
should consider the device
4Device Primary Predicate device Reference device Summary
result in conjunction with crackles similar to the
recording and other reference device.
relevant patient data.
Type of use Over-The-Counter Use Over-The-Counter Use Prescription use Same as the primary
predicate device.
Intended users Intended to be used by Intended to be used by Professional users Same as the primary
professional users and lay professional users and lay predicate device.
users (18-65 years old). users (18-65 years old).
Intended patient Intended for patients of 2 Intended for patients of 2 Adults, adolescents, Same as the primary
population years and older years and older and/or children over the predicate device.
height of 2 feet 9 inches.
Intended Non-clinical (home) and Non-clinical (home) and Clinical setting Same as the primary
environment clinical clinical predicate device
Form Stand-alone software Stand-alone software Hardware (sensors) and Same as the primary
system system software. predicate device.
Use sound sensors to
collect lung sounds via
dermal contact, which is
then converted to a visual
display.
Device composition The following modules The following modules The system is composed The subject device
compose the Tyto Insights compose the Tyto Insights of: shares the same
for Crackles Detection: for Wheeze Detection: 1. Sound sensors structural sub-systems
designed to collect as the primary predicate
 The Tyto Insights for  The Tyto Insights for lung sounds via device: ALS, APS, and
Crackles Detection Wheeze Detection dermal contact with WBS.
Application Server Application Server human skin The analytical
(APS) (APS) 2. Digital Collection component of the ALS
Module (DCM) for the module, the AI enabled
5Device Primary Predicate device Reference device Summary
 The Tyto Insights for  The Tyto Insights for conversion of analog algorithm, differs
Crackles Detection Wheeze Detection data to digital data between the proposed
Algorithm Server Algorithm Server (ALS) 3. a mobile computer device and the primary
(ALS)  The Tyto Insights for workstation to assist in predicate device.
 The Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection Web processing, displaying,
Crackles Detection Web Server (WBS) provides and/or storing The differences in the
Server (WBS) provides a graphic indication recording information sub-systems don’t raise
a graphic indication whether a wheeze is new questions of safety
whether a crackle is detected in the or effectiveness.
detected in the recording recording It can be
It can be utilized both in utilized both in patient
patient and clinician and clinician side.
side.
Input Lung sounds recorded by Lung sounds recorded by Sound sensors designed Same as the primary
compatible Tyto compatible Tyto to collect lung sounds via predicate device
Stethoscope Stethoscope dermal contact with
human skin
Device technology The recordings are created The recordings are created VRIxv uses sound sensors The analytical
and operating by the compatible Tyto by the compatible Tyto to collect lung sounds via component of the AI
principle Stethoscope (K181612) Stethoscope (K181612) dermal contact, which is algorithm differs
and are sent by the third- and are sent by the third- then converted to a visual between the proposed
party point of care app to party point of care app to display. device and the primary
the clinician app through the clinician app through predicate device.
the telehealth server. the telehealth server. During the breathing
The telehealth server The telehealth server sends process, the VRlxp Both the proposed
sends the set of the lung the set of the lung sound detects lung sounds (i.e., device and the primary
sound recordings to the recordings to the Tyto acoustic energy) and predicate device utilize
Tyto Insights for Crackles Insights for Wheeze converts them into a the CRNN
Detection web server Detection web server using visual display, which can (Convolutional
using its dedicated API. its dedicated API. be viewed via a personal Recurrent Neural
The telehealth server The telehealth server computer (PC) monitor Network) models,
subsequently sends the subsequently sends the link and stored for future
6Device Primary Predicate device Reference device Summary
link to results and the to results and the relevant review. The device is each network was
relevant UI web view to UI web view to the point of designed to record breath trained based on the
the point of care app and care app and clinician app. sounds based on sensor target clinical class:
clinician app. location. Additionally, the Wheeze for the
The AI enabled algorithm VRlxp has an automated predicate device and
The AI enabled algorithm runs automatically and feature for detecting Crackles for the
runs automatically and returns a response for each sounds consistent with proposed device.
returns a response for each audio file with the crackles and wheezes for
audio file with the indication of wheezes to further clinical The question
indication of crackles to the telehealth server, which evaluation. Lung sounds concerning the ability
the telehealth server, sends a response to both are viewed collectively as of software AI
which sends a response to the clinician side and the a grayscale image, as well Algorithm to accurately
both the clinician side and patient side. as audibly by sensor. detect abnormal breath
the patient side. sound is not new
regardless of the
particular lung sound
algorithm model
employed.
The primary predicate
device raised similar
questions. The different
AI Algorithm between
the subject device and
the predicate device
does require that the
accuracy of the subject
device will be
substantiated with valid
performance data using
acceptable methods.
7Device Primary Predicate device Reference device Summary
Signal length The length of the signal is The length of the signal is Was not specified. Same as the primary
dictated by the recording dictated by the recording predicate device
process of the compatible process of the compatible
Stethoscope. The subject Stethoscope. The subject
device processes the device processes the
recordings in segments of recordings in segments of
up to 12 seconds while up to 12 seconds while
signals shorter than 6 signals shorter than 6
seconds will not be seconds will not be
processed. processed.
Data transfer and The telehealth server The telehealth server sends the VRlxp contains a Same as the primary
storage sends the list of the the list of the recordings software application that predicate
recordings (identified by a (identified by a unique was designed to provide
unique identifier and time identifier and time stamp) computer-aided
stamp) to the Tyto to the Tyto Insights for recordings with the
Insights for Crackles Wheeze Detection web electronic stethoscope
Detection web server server using its dedicated and to store these
using its dedicated API. API. The server executes recordings along with
The server executes the the Tyto Insights for other appropriate patient
Tyto Insights for Crackles Wheeze Detection which information.
Detection which runs the runs the algorithm and
algorithm and provides provides the results. Then
the results. Then the Tyto the Tyto Insights for
Insights for Crackles Wheeze Detection web
Detection web server server initiates the web
initiates the web user user interface.
interface. All the software
All the software subsystems (server and
subsystems (server and storage) are hosted in the
storage) are hosted in the cloud and communicate
cloud and communicate through IP network.
through IP network.
8Device Primary Predicate device Reference device Summary
Output  Positive (Crackles  Positive (wheeze Lung sounds can be Same as the primary
suspected), suspected), viewed collectively as a predicate device.
 Negative (Crackles not  Negative (Wheeze not grayscale image, as well Indication whether the
suspected), suspected), as audibly by sensor. abnormal lung sound
 The Tyto Insights for  The Tyto Insights for Additionally, the VRlxp was detected or not and
Crackles Detection was Wheeze Detection was has an automated feature indication in case the
not able to analyze the not able to analyze the for detecting sounds device was not able to
recording recording consistent with crackles analyze the recording.
and wheezes for further
clinical evaluation.
Performance The primary study The primary study Unknown The clinical validation
endpoints and hypotheses endpoints and hypotheses path of the predecessor
were met for the intended were met for the intended of the predicate device
patient population, the patient population, the (TytoCare Lung Sounds
difference in AUC was in difference in AUCs was in Analyzer K221614) that
favor of Tyto Insights for favor of Tyto Insights for established non
Crackles Detection Wheeze Detection inferiority with clinical
compared to the clinical compared to the predicate readers was followed.
readers. device and in favor of the
non-inferiority claim. The study endpoints
AUC Tyto Insights for and hypotheses were
Crackles Detection: 0.97 AUC Tyto Insights for met for the intended
(0.95–0.98). Wheeze Detection: 0.96 patient population.
Sensitivity and (0.94-0.97)
Specificity were The difference in AUC
evaluated: Sensitivity and specificity was in favor of Tyto
Estimate two-sided 95% were evaluated: Insights for Crackles
Cl): Estimate two-sided 95% Detection compared to
Sensitivity: 0.72 (0.63- Cl): the clinical readers.
0.79) Sensitivity: 0.5465 [0.4304
Specificity: 0.99 (0.97 - – 0.6549] The overall diagnostic
1.00) performance was found
9Device Primary Predicate device Reference device Summary
Specificity: 0.9895 [0.9684 to be substantially
– 0.9966]. equivalent when
compared with the
primary predicate and
reference devices.
User interface for Web view Web view Mobile computer Same as the primary
point of care and workstation is used for predicate device
clinician apps displaying the recording
information to the
clinician
Predetermined PCCP is included in the PCCP was not included in PCCP was not included in The subject device is
Change Control 510k submission the 510k submission the 510k submission substantially equivalent
Plan (PCCP) to the predicate device,
other than the
implementation of an
authorized
Predetermined Change
Control Plan (PCCP) to
the Tyto Insights for
Crackles detection
device.
10The Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection like its primary predicate device the Tyto Insights
for Wheeze Detection (K232237) have the same intended use, in that both are intended to
identify recordings where a specific abnormal lung sound is suspected in the same intended
patient population (adult and pediatric 2 years and older) by the same user [Health Care
Professional (HCP)] when self-administered by patient and/or the HCPs. Both devices are
only intended to be interpreted by HCP and HCP advice is required for the patient to
understand their result. Both are labeled OTC.
VRIxp by Deep Breeze Ltd. (K091732) was added as a reference device to support the
substantial equivalence of the specific lung sound - crackles, that the subject device is
indicated to detect.
Both the Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection and its primary predicate device are stand-
alone software systems that deliver the same intended benefit (identify recordings where a
specific abnormal lung sound is suspected). For both devices the source of the Lung sounds
recordings is the compatible FDA cleared Tyto Stethoscope (K181612).
Similarly, to the primary predicate device, the Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection system
is composed of three sub-systems: Application Server (APS), Algorithm Server (ALS)
and Web Server (WBS). The APS communicates with the ALS and implements an
application programming interface API for communication with the telehealth server. The
ALS receives an audio file as input and returns an analysis result of positive or negative
regarding whether a Crackles was detected as output.
The code of the APS sub-system is similar to the APS sub-system of the primary predicate
device. The only minor adjustments relate to the algorithm’s type related parameters. The
ALS receives an audio file as input and returns an analysis result of positive or negative
regarding whether a crackle was detected as output. The ALS sub-system is composed of an
Algorithm and logic wrapper and Interface components. The code of the logic wrapper and
Interface component of the ALS component is similar to the ALS component of the primary
predicate device, the Algorithm’s component is different. The Algorithm of the proposed
device is Artificial Intelligence (AI) enabled Algorithm for Crackles detection when the
Algorithm of the primary predicate device is AI enabled Algorithm for Wheezes detection.
In both devices, the data is being analyzed by AI Machine Learning algorithm to determine
the presence of abnormal lung sound in the lungs sound recording. Both the subject device
11and the primary predicate device utilize the CRNN (Convolutional Recurrent Neural
Network) model for sound event detection, integrating CNNs (Convolutional Neural
Networks) and RNNs (Recurrent Neural Networks). Each network is trained based on the
target clinical class: Wheeze for the predicate device and Crackles for the proposed device.
The question concerning the ability of software AI Algorithm to accurately detect abnormal
breath sound is not new regardless of the particular lung sound algorithm model employed.
The primary predicate raised similar question. The different AI Algorithm between the
proposed device and the primary predicate device does require that the accuracy of the
device will be substantiated with valid performance data using acceptable methods.
The WBS provides a graphic indication whether a crackle is detected in the recording. It
can be utilized both in the patient and clinician side. The only difference between the WBS
sub-systems is in the user interface, which reflects the presence of Crackles instead of
Wheeze. The minor differences in the user interface and the software algorithm do not raise
new questions of safety and effectiveness, the differences as compared to the primary
predicate device did not introduce new usability related critical tasks and didn’t impact
existing critical tasks.
Standards Conformance
 ANSI AAMI ISO 14971:2019, Medical devices - Application of risk
management to medical devices
 ANSI AAMI IEC 62304:2006/A1:2016, Medical device software - Software life
cycle processes
 ISO 15223-1 Fourth edition 2021-07, Medical devices - Symbols to be used
with information to be supplied by the manufacturer - Part 1: General
requirements.
 ANSI AAMI IEC 62366-1:2015+AMD1:2020 (Consolidated Text) Medical
devices Part 1: Application of usability engineering to medical device.
Performance evaluation:
The Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection was subject to performance evaluation following
methodology similar to the ones used to test the primary predicate device. A testing plan
was developed and performed to verify that the Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection meets
its specifications. The main aspects of the testing plan included:
 SW verification and validation - The software including both custom developed
software and OTS software, have been verified and validated and have been
12demonstrated to be safe and effective for its intended use. The software
documentation level is basic per Content of Premarket Submissions for Device
Software Functions, Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration
Staff, dated June 14, 2023. All required items related to software as required by
FDA guidance for Basic Documentation Level have been included in this
submission.
 Cybersecurity- all the applicable information to reflect effective cybersecurity
management and to address the FDA’s recommendations described in
Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Refuse to Accept Policy for Cyber Devices
and Related Systems Under Section 524B of the FD&C Act, issue date March
2023, Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality System Considerations and
Content of Premarket Submissions, issue date September 2023 and in the other
FDA’s applicable policies have been included in this submission.
 Performance evaluation - retrospective Stand-alone and Clinical performance
evaluation of the “Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection” device in detecting
crackles in the compatible Tyto Stethoscope lung auscultation recordings
respective to ground truth and human level performance.
 Human factors validation – the minor user interface modifications did not
introduce new critical tasks and didn’t impact existing critical tasks. Therefore,
no additional human factors validation was required and the human factors testing
for the predicate device was applicable.
The performance of the Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection device in detecting crackles in
recordings acquired by the compatible Tyto Stethoscope has been evaluated on a
retrospective validation dataset. The retrospective validation dataset is composed of
recordings obtained from the real-world use of the Tyto Care FDA-cleared compatible Tyto
Stethoscope (K181612). 446 recordings (120 Crackles positive and 326 negative),
corresponding to the intended patient population of the Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection
Software (a total of 445 patients). The demographics of the validation dataset are presented
hereunder:
13N=446
recordings
Age Group (Years)
Positive Negative Total
2-12 57 (25.67%) 165 (74.33%) 222 (50.22%)
12-21 10 (18.18%) 45 (81.82%) 55 (12.33%)
>=21 53 (31.36%) 116 (68.64%) 169 (37.45%)
Gender
Positive Negative Total
Male 55 (25.82%) 158 (74.18%) 213 (47.6%)
Female 65 (27.89%) 168 (72.11%) 233 (52.24%)
Table 2: Validation data-set demographics
To establish the ground truth, all the recordings were read by three blinded experienced
Pulmonologists at random, the binary ground truth was determined by a majority vote of these
three Pulmonologists. For the characterization of the stand-alone accuracy, the automated
binary result of the software has been compared to ground truth and specificity and sensitivity
were calculated. This stand-alone accuracy is presented hereunder in table 3:
Parameter Estimate (two-sided 95% CI)
Sensitivity (Se) 0.72 (0.63–0.79)
Specificity (Sp) 0.99 (0.97–1.00)
Positive Predictive Value (PPV) 0.63 (0.4–0.87)
Negative Predictive Value 0.99 (0.98–0.99)
(NPV)
Table 3: The stand-alone accuracy of the Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection
For the characterization of the clinical performance the Area under the Receiver Operating
Curve (AUC) for crackles detection by the device was compared to the clinical readers
(Physicians non-Pulmonologists). To calculate the AUC the probability score was extracted
from the device and compared to a likelihood score that was recorded by the clinical readers
independently for every recording.
The primary endpoint was to establish that the lower bound of 95% two-sided CI for the
difference in AUCs between the Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection vs. clinical readers is
higher than non-inferiority margin of -0.05. The secondary endpoint was the repeatability of
the software as compared to the clinical readers.
14Parameter Estimate 95% two sides CI
AUC Clinical readers 0.77 (0.73–0.8 )
AUC Tyto Insights for Crackles 0.97 (0.95–0.98)
Detection
AUC Tyto Insights for Crackles 0.2 (0.17– 0.23)
Detection – clinical readers
Table 4: The clinical accuracy of the Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection as compared to
Clinical readers.
For the indicated patient population the difference in AUC (Tyto Insights for Crackles
Detection – Readers; higher values in favor of the device) was 0.2 (0.17–0.23) establishing
the non–inferiority (0.17 > margin of –0.05) of the device in detecting crackles. Similar results
were also shown within the subgroup analysis, as evidence that the device accuracy is
consistent with age and gender groups, different types of crackles, additional abnormal lung
sounds and recordings generated by clinician or lay-user. The secondary endpoint was
repeatability, the device is characterized by with kappa of 1.0 and agreement of 100%
compared to readers repeatability with kappa of 0.42 (0.35 -0.49). In summary, non–
inferiority of Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection compared to clinical readers was
established. Similar effect trend was also shown within the subgroup analysis, as evidence
that the device accuracy is consistent with age and gender groups, different types of crackles,
additional abnormal lung sounds and recordings generated by clinician or lay-user.
Predetermined Change Control Plan (PCCP)
The subject device is substantially equivalent to the predicate device, other than the
implementation of an authorized Predetermined Change Control Plan (PCCP) that specifies
anticipated modifications to the Tyto Insights for Crackles detection device.
The table below includes a description of the software modifications that can be made to the
algorithms in the device subject to the authorized PCCP as well as a description of the test
methods that will be used to support substantial equivalence determination.
15Detailed list of changes Test Methods Acceptance criteria to establish
substantial equivalence
1. Modifications related to  Software verification  Software verification and
quantitative measures of and validation validation meet the
performance  Clinical performance requirements
specifications: Validation.  Clinical performance
Retrospective study on Validation:
Re-training of the ML model dataset of the compatible
with additional data to Tyto Stethoscope Stand-alone:
improve the performance )of recordings Accuracy of device – Sensitivity,
the re-trained algorithm that are representative of
Specificity, PPV, NPV
compared to the original the intended recorded
device while the same type patient population (data Co-Primary endpoints:
and range of input signal is will be acquired by the  Sensitivity of the modified
used. real-world use of the Tyto device calculated on the new
Stethoscope). validation dataset compared to
the results for the original
device
 Specificity of the modified
device calculated on the new
validation dataset compared to
the results for the original
device
Success criteria:
The success is defined if the LCI
for Se is higher than 0.6279
AND LCI for Sp is higher than
0.9668. Se and Sp are co-
primary endpoints. Meeting both
endpoints is required for the
modification to be declared
successfully.
Secondary Endpoint
The PPV and NPV of the newly
trained algorithm compared to the
PPV and the NPV of the original
device.
2. Modifications related to  Software verification  Software verification and
quantitative measures – and validation validation meet the
technical performance  Verification testing will requirements
specifications. be conducted for the  Verification testing meet the
improved requirements
Modification of data computational  Clinical performance
preprocessing methodologies parameters Validation:
/data augmentation  Clinical performance
methodologies/ Architecture Validation. Stand-alone:
and hyper-parameters to Retrospective study on Accuracy of device – Sensitivity,
improve the performance or dataset of the compatible
Specificity, PPV, NPV
the efficiency of the
16computational resources Tyto Stethoscope
(running time, memory recordings
Co-Primary endpoints:
consumption and CPU that are representative of
 Sensitivity of the modified
utilization). the intended recorded
device calculated on the new
patient population (data
validation dataset compared to
will be acquired by the
the results for the original
real-world use of the Tyto
device
Stethoscope)
 Specificity of the modified
device calculated on the new
validation dataset compared to
the results for the original
device.
Success criteria:
The success is defined if the LCI
for Se is higher than 0.6279
AND LCI for Sp is higher than
0.9668. Se and Sp are co-
primary endpoints. Meeting both
endpoints is required for the
modification to be declared
successfully.
Secondary Endpoint
 The PPV and NPV of the
newly trained algorithm
compared to the PPV and the
NPV of the original device.
3. Modifications related to  Software verification  Software verification and
device inputs: and validation validation meet the
 Clinical performance requirements
Expanding the algorithm to Validation.  Clinical performance
include new sources of the Retrospective study on Validation:
same signal type (different dataset of the compatible
model of FDA compatible Stethoscope recordings Stand-alone:
Stethoscope with equivalent that are representative of Accuracy of device – Sensitivity,
audio acquisition the intended recorded
Specificity, PPV, NPV
specifications). patient population (data
Modification is limited to will be acquired by the
expanding to electronic real-world use of the
Four co-primary endpoints:
stethoscopes that have FDA applicable Stethoscope
Stand-Alone performance:
510k clearance (for over-the- models ).
counter use) at the time that
Accuracy of device – Sensitivity,
the proposed modification is
Specificity, PPV, NPV
made.
Four Co-Primary endpoints:
• Sensitivity of the newly trained
algorithm on the new validation
dataset (subset collected only with
the new stethoscope that have the
required FDA 510k clearance at the
17time that the proposed modification
is made) compared to the results for
the original device.
• Specificity of the newly trained
algorithm on the new validation
dataset (subset collected only with
the new stethoscope that have the
required FDA 510k clearance at the
time that the proposed modification
is made) compared to the results for
the original device.
• Sensitivity of the modified device
calculated on the new validation
dataset (subset collected only with
the currently 510k cleared Tyto
Stethoscope) compared to the
results for the original device
• Specificity of the modified device
calculated on the new validation
dataset (subset collected only with
the currently 510k cleared Tyto
Stethoscope) compared to the
results for the original device.
Secondary Endpoint
• The Se, Sp, PPV and NPV of the
newly trained algorithm compared
the original device on validation
dataset combined from cases
collected using both new and
already cleared stethoscopes.
Success criteria:
The success is defined if the LCI
for Se is higher than 0.6279
AND LCI for Sp is higher than
0.9668. Se and Sp are co-
primary endpoints. Meeting both
endpoints is required for the
modification to be declared
successfully. Se and Sp are co-
primary endpoints (a total of
four). Success is defined as
success of all four co-primary
endpoints.
Secondary Endpoint
The Se, Sp, PPV and NPV of the
newly trained algorithm compared
the original device on validation
dataset combined from cases
collected using both new and
already cleared stethoscopes.
18The PCCP includes an algorithm modification protocol describing the verification and
validation activities that will support the proposed changes. The modification protocol
incorporates impact assessment considerations and specifies requirements for data
management, including data sources, collection, storage, and sequestration, as well as
documentation and data re-use practices.
Specific test methods are specified in the PCCP to establish substantial equivalence relative
to Subject device and include sample size determination, analysis methods, and acceptance
criteria. To help ensure validation test datasets are representative of the intended use
population, each dataset will meet minimum demographic requirements similarly to the
proposed device.
Upon implementation of the change, the change will be communicated to the users and the
labeling will be updated to reflect the new device’s performance characteristics.
Conclusion
The Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection Software has the same intended use and indication
for use as the predicates. The question concerning the ability of software AI Algorithm to
accurately detect abnormal breath sound is not new regardless of the particular lung sound
algorithm model employed. The primary predicate raised a similar question. Non–inferiority
of Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection compared to the clinical readers for intended patient
population was established. Thus, we conclude that the Tyto Insights for Crackles Detection
is substantially equivalent. i.e. as safe and as effective as the primary predicate device.
19