April 8, 2024
Ever Fortune.AI, Co., Ltd.
Ti-Hao Wang
Chief Technology Officer
Rm. D, 8F. No. 573, Sec. 2 Taiwan Blvd. West Dist.
Taichung City, 403020, TAIWAN
Re: K240291
Trade/Device Name: EFAI CARDIOSUITE CTA ACUTE AORTIC SYNDROME ASSESSMENT
SYSTEM
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2080
Regulation Name: Radiological Computer Aided Triage And Notification Software
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QAS
Dated: January 31, 2024
Received: February 1, 2024
Dear Ti-Hao Wang:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).K240291 - Ti-Hao Wang Page 2
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
for
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEAL TH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: 0MB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 06/30/2023
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
51 0(k) Number (if known)
K240291
Device Name
EFAI CARDIOSUITE CTA ACUTE AORTIC SYNDROME ASSESSMENT SYSTEM
Indications for Use (Describe)
EFAI CARDIOSUITE CTA ACUTE AORTIC SYNDROME ASSESSMENT SYSTEM (EFAI AASCTA) is a
radiological computer aided triage and notification software indicated for use in the analysis of chest or chest-abdomen
CTA in adults aged 22 and older. The device is intended to assist hospital networks and appropriately trained medical
specialists in workflow triage by flagging and communicating suspected positive cases of aortic dissection (AD) or aortic
intramural hematoma (IMH) pathology.
EFAI AASCTA uses an artificial intelligence algorithm to identify suspected findings. It makes case-level output available
to a P ACS/workstation for worklist prioritization or triage. BF AI AASCTA is not intended to direct attention to specific
portions or anomalies of an image. Its results are not intended to be used on a stand-alone basis for clinical decision
making nor is it intended to rule out AAS or otherwise preclude clinical assessment of computed tomography angiography
cases.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
D
~ Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
"An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid 0MB number."
FORM FDA 3881 (6/20) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 BFEVER
K240291
F9RTUNE.AI
510(k) Summary
1. General Information
510(k)Sponsor EverFortune.AICo.,Ltd.
Address Rm.D,8F.No.573,Sec.2TaiwanBlvd.
WestDist.
TaichungCity403020
TAIWAN
Applicant JosephChang
ContactInformation 886-04-23213838#216
joseph.chang@everfortune.ai
CorrespondencePerson Ti-HaoWang
ContactInformation 886-04-23213838#168
thothwang@gmail.com
tihao.wang@everfortune.ai
DatePrepared January,2024
2. Proposed Device
ProprietaryName EFAI CARDIOSUITE CTA ACUTE AORTIC SYNDROME
ASSESSMENTSYSTEM
CommonName EFAIAASCTA
ClassificationName Radiologicalcomputeraidedtriageandnotificationsoftware
RegulationNumber 21CFR892.2080
ProductCode QAS
RegulatoryClass II
3. Predicate Device
ProprietaryName BriefCase
PremarketNotification K222329
ClassificationName Radiologicalcomputeraidedtriageandnotificationsoftware
RegulationNumber 21CFR892.2080
ProductCode QAS
RegulatoryClass II
EFAIAASCTATraditional510(k)
1EVER
F9RTUNE.AI
4. Device Description
EFAI CARDIOSUITE CTA ACUTE AORTIC SYNDROME ASSESSMENT SYSTEM (EFAI
AASCTA) is a radiological computer-assisted triage and notification software system. The
software uses deep learning techniques to automatically analyze chest or chest-abdomen CTA
and alerts the PACS/RIS workstation once images with features suggestive of AD or IMH are
identified.
Through the use of EFAI AASCTA, a radiologist is able to review studies with features
suggestiveof AD or IMH earlierthaninstandardof careworkflow.
The device is intended to provide a passive notification through the PACS/workstation to the
radiologists indicating the existenceof acasethatmaypotentiallybenefitfromtheprioritization.
It does notmark,highlight,or directusers’ attentiontoaspecificlocationontheoriginalchestor
chest-abdomen CTA. The device aims to aid in prioritization and triage of radiological medical
imagesonly.
5. Intended Use / Indications for Use
EFAI CARDIOSUITE CTA ACUTE AORTIC SYNDROME ASSESSMENT SYSTEM (EFAI
AASCTA) is a radiological computer aided triage and notification software indicated for use in
the analysis of chest or chest-abdomen CTA in adults aged 22 and older. Thedeviceisintended
to assist hospital networks and appropriately trained medical specialists in workflow triage by
flagging and communicating suspected positive cases of aortic dissection (AD) or aortic
intramuralhematoma(IMH) pathology.
EFAI AASCTA uses an artificial intelligence algorithm to identify suspected findings. It makes
case-level output available to a PACS/workstation for worklist prioritization or triage. EFAI
AASCTA is not intended to direct attention to specific portions or anomalies of an image. Its
results are not intended to be used on a stand-alone basis for clinical decision-making nor is it
intended to rule out AAS or otherwise preclude clinical assessment of computed tomography
angiographycases.
6. Comparison of Technological Characteristics with Predicate Device
ProposedDevice: PredicateDevice:
Feature/
EFAIAASCTA BriefCase
Function
(K240291) (K222329)
Intended EFAI CARDIOSUITE CTA BriefCase is a radiological
Use/Indication ACUTE AORTIC SYNDROME computer-aided triage and notification
forUse ASSESSMENT SYSTEM (EFAI software indicated for use in the analysis
EFAIAASCTATraditional510(k)
2.:. EVER
---.- F9RTUNE.AI
AASCTA) is a radiological of CT exams with contrast (CTA and CT
computer aided triage and with contrast) that include the chest in
notification software indicated for adults or transitional adolescents aged 18
use in the analysis of chest or and older. Thedeviceisintendedtoassist
chest-abdomen CTA in adults aged hospital networks and appropriately
22 and older. The device is trained medical specialists in workflow
intended to assisthospitalnetworks triage by flagging and communicating
and appropriately trained medical suspected positive cases of aortic
specialists in workflow triage by dissection (AD) pathology. BriefCase
flagging and communicating uses an artificial intelligencealgorithmto
suspected positive cases of aortic analyze images and highlight cases with
dissection(AD)oraorticintramural detected findings on a standalone
hematoma(IMH)pathology. application in parallel to the ongoing
EFAI AASCTA uses an artificial standard ofcareimageinterpretation.The
intelligence algorithm to identify user is presented with notifications for
suspected findings. It makes cases with suspected findings.
case-level output available to a Notifications include compressed
PACS/workstation for worklist preview images that are meant for
prioritization or triage. EFAI informational purposes only and not
AASCTA is not intended to direct intended for diagnostic use beyond
attention to specific portions or notification. The device doesnotalterthe
anomalies of an image. Its results original medical image and is not
are not intended to be used on a intended to be used as a diagnostic
stand-alone basis for clinical device. The results of BriefCase are
decision-making nor is it intended intended to be used in conjunction with
to rule out AAS or otherwise other patient information and based on
preclude clinical assessment of the user's professional judgment, toassist
computed tomographyangiography with triage/prioritization of medical
cases. images. Notified clinicians are
responsible for viewing full images per
thestandardofcare.
Hospital networks and
Hospital networks and appropriately
Userpopulation appropriately trained medical
trainedmedicalspecialists
specialists
Anatomical
Chestandthoracoabdominal Chest,abdomenandthoracoabdominal
regionofinterest
Dataacquisition CT exams with contrast (CTA and CT
chestorchest-abdomenCTA
protocol withcontrast)thatincludethechest
Notification-only
(notification
Yes Yes
alerts),parallel
workflowtool
Images
DICOM DICOM
format
Interferencewith
standard No No
workflow
EFAIAASCTATraditional510(k)
3EVER
F9RTUNE.AI
Artificial intelligence algorithm Artificial intelligence algorithm with
Algorithm
withdatabaseofimages databaseofimages
7. Performance Data
Performance of the EFAI AASCTA has beenevaluatedandverifiedinaccordancewithsoftware
specifications and applicable performance standardsthroughsoftwareverificationandvalidation
testing. Additionally, the software validation activities were performed in accordance with IEC
62304:2006/A1:2016 - Medical device software – Software life cycle processes, in addition to
the FDA Guidance documents, “Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software
Functions” and “Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality System ConsiderationsandContent
of PremarketSubmissions.”
Ever Fortune.AI conducted a retrospective, blinded, multisite clinical validation study with the
proposed device EFAI AASCTA with a pre-determined primary and secondary endpoint and
performance goals to evaluate the performance of the EFAI AASCTA in identifying positive
findings of aortic dissection (AD) or aortic intramural hematoma (IMH) from chest or
chest-abdomen CTA scans on a validation dataset of 380 CTA studies (156 positives and 224
negatives) consecutively collected in the United States. None of the studies was used as part of
theEFAI AASCTA modeldevelopmentor analyticalvalidationtesting.
The study population contained 51.58% females and 48.42% males, and the mean age of cases
was 62.90 years. The CT scanner manufacturers of imageswereacquiredfromPhilips,Toshiba,
Siemens, GE, and others. Confounding cases in the dataset include possible confounders as
follows: Artifact, Limited Field, Atherosclerotic Disease, Aortic Aneurysm, Arterial Dissection,
andVesselDisease.
The presence of AD or IMH in each case was determined independently by three U.S.
board-certified radiologists, and the reference standard (ground truth) was generated by the
majorityagreementbetweenthethreeexperts.Theperformanceacceptancecriteriaweresetsuch
that thelowerbounds of 95% confidenceintervals(CIs) of bothsensitivityandspecificityshould
exceed0.8.
The observed results of the standalone performance validation study demonstrated that EFAI
AASCTA by itself, in the absence of any interaction with a clinician, can provide case-level
notifications with features suggestive of positive findings(AD or IMH) withsatisfactoryresults.
The EFAI AASCTA was able to demonstrate sensitivity and specificity of 0.929 (95%
CI=0.878-0.960) and0.915(95% CI=0.871-0.945)respectively,whichissubstantiallyequivalent
to the predicate device (BriefCase, K222329). The secondary endpoint of the observed system
processing time per study is 37.86 seconds (95% CI=35.22-40.50) on average and was
comparablewiththepredicatedevice(38 seconds).
EFAIAASCTATraditional510(k)
4EVER
F9RTUNE.AI
In addition, the results of the subgroup analysis, which included different genders, age groups,
CT manufacturer groups, and CT slice thickness groups, demonstrated that EFAI AASCTA
consistently performed high performance, underscoring its reliability and effectiveness across
diversesubgroups. Wealsoevaluatedthedevice'sperformanceincaseswithimagequalityissues
(including Artifact and Limited Field) and accompanying radiologic findings (including
Atherosclerotic Disease, Aortic Aneurysm, ArterialDissection,andVesselDisease)toassess the
impact of these potential confounders. The device consistently performed reliably across these
circumstances.Furthermore,our analysisof thedevice'sabilitytoidentifyspecificcharacteristics
of positive findings, including their type, Stanford classification, and location, revealed that
EFAI AASCTA maintains stable performance. In conclusion, the results demonstrate that the
EFAI AASCTA device is determined to besubstantiallyequivalentinsafetyandeffectivenessto
thepredicatedevice,BriefCase.
8. Safety & Effectiveness
EFAI AASCTA has been designed, verified and validated in compliance with 21 CFR, Part
820.30 requirements. The device has been designed to meet the requirements associated with
ISO 14971:2019 Medical devices — Application of risk management to medical devices. The
EFAI AASCTA performance has been validated using retrospective data from case data and
throughtheuse of Readercomparisonanalysis.
9. Conclusion
Based on the information submitted in this premarket notification, and based on the indications
for use, technological characteristics, and performance testing, the EFAI AASCTA raises no new
questions of safety and effectiveness and is substantially equivalent to the predicate device in
termsof safety,efficacy,andperformance.
EFAIAASCTATraditional510(k)
5