October 17, 2024
Epitel, Inc
Christopher Phillips
VP, Regulatory Affairs and Quality
465 S 400 E
Suite 250
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
Re: K240408
Trade/Device Name: REMI-AI Rapid Detection Module (REMI-AI RDM)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 882.1400
Regulation Name: Electroencephalograph
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: OMB
Dated: September 16, 2024
Received: September 17, 2024
Dear Christopher Phillips:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
FDA's substantial equivalence determination also included the review and clearance of your Predetermined
Change Control Plan (PCCP). Under section 515C(b)(1) of the Act, a new premarket notification is not
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.07.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK240408 - Christopher Phillips Page 2
required for a change to a device cleared under section 510(k) of the Act, if such change is consistent with an
established PCCP granted pursuant to section 515C(b)(2) of the Act. Under 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3), a new
premarket notification is required if there is a major change or modification in the intended use of a device,
or if there is a change or modification in a device that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of
the device, e.g., a significant change or modification in design, material, chemical composition, energy
source, or manufacturing process. Accordingly, if deviations from the established PCCP result in a major
change or modification in the intended use of the device, or result in a change or modification in the device
that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, then a new premarket notification
would be required consistent with section 515C(b)(1) of the Act and 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3). Failure to submit
such a premarket submission would constitute adulteration and misbranding under sections 501(f)(1)(B) and
502(o) of the Act, respectively.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.K240408 - Christopher Phillips Page 3
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jay R. Gupta -S
Jay Gupta
Assistant Director
DHT5A: Division of Neurosurgical,
Neurointerventional, and
Neurodiagnostic Devices
OHT5: Office of Neurological and
Physical Medicine Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureI DEPARTMENT OF HEAL TH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: 0MB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
===============
IS ubmission Number (if known)
K240408
Device Name
REMI-AI Rapid Detection Module (REMI-AI ROM)
Indications for Use (Describe)
The REMI-AI Rapid Detection Module (REMI-AI ROM) is a seizure detection module which is
integrated into the REMI Remote EEG Monitoring System and is only indicated for use within non­
ICU (Intensive Care Unit) healthcare settings. REMI-AI ROM has not been validated for and is not
indicated for detection of electrographic status epilepticus.
REMI-AI ROM conducts automated analysis of REMI EEG data in near real-time and provides
notifications of potential electrographic seizures (events) through the REMI System when seizure
prevalence of 10% or greater (indicating seizure activity of at least 30 seconds within a 5-minute
rolling window) is detected. When seizure prevalence is displayed, the notification also displays the
corresponding event detection confidence. Notifications are intended to be used by qualified
clinicians who will exercise professional judgment in their application. Detected events are also
annotated in the associated REMI EEG record as an aide to the qualified physician's REMI EEG
review.
Delays of up to several minutes may occur between the detection of an event and the generation of
an event notification, and are thus not a substitute for real-time monitoring. REMI-AI ROM does not
make any diagnostic conclusion about the subject's condition and is intended as a physiological
signal monitor. REMI-AI ROM is indicated for use with adult and pediatric patients (6+ years).
Type of Use (select one or both as applicable)
x D
Prescription Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
'�n agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid 0MB number."REMI-AI RDM - Traditional510(k)Submission
REMI-AI Rapid Detection Module (REMI-AI RDM)
510(k) SUMMARY
1. Applicant Information
Epitel, Inc.
465 S 400 E, Suite 250
Salt Lake City, UT 84111
Contact Information
Christopher M. Phillips
VP, Regulatory Affairs and Quality
Date Prepared
October 9, 2024
2. Subject Device Information
Name of Device: REMI-AI Rapid Detection Module (REMI-AI RDM)
Common or Usual Name: EEG System
Classification Name: Automatic Event Detection Software For Full-Montage
Electroencephalograph
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code and Regulation Number: OMB - Sec. 882.1400
3. Predicate Devices
Predicate Type 510(k) Number Name of Device Name of Manufacturer
Primary Predicate K191301 Ceribell Pocket EEG Ceribell, Inc.
Device
(Seizure Detection Module)
Secondary K231779 REMI-AI Discrete Detection Epitel, Inc.
Predicate Module (RDM)
4. Device Description
REMI-AI RDM conducts automated analysis of EEG data collected by the REMI System in near
real-time. REMI-AI RDM provides notifications of the prevalence and confidence of potential
electrographic seizures, having a combined prevalence of 10% or greater, which correlates with
a duration of at least 30 seconds of activity within a rolling 5 minute window of EEG.
REMI-AI RDM notifications are presented through the REMI Mobile software application, and
are intended to be used by qualified clinicians who will exercise professional judgment in their
interpretation. Notifications include the prevalence and confidence value for the event and are
marked in the associated EEG record in order to assist qualified clinicians in their assessment.
REMI-AI RDM notifications identify when a section of EEG is consistent with seizure
characteristics it has been trained to recognize. When a notification is presented, clinical context
and facility procedures should inform next steps in patient evaluation and management.
REMI-AI RDM does not make any treatment or management recommendations.REMI-AI RDM - Traditional510(k)Submission
Delays of up to several minutes may occur between the start of an event, the detection of an
event and the generation of an event notification, and are thus not a substitute for real-time
monitoring.
5. Indications for Use
The REMI-AI Rapid Detection Module (REMI-AI RDM) is a seizure detection module which is
integrated into the REMI Remote EEG Monitoring System and is only indicated for use within
non-ICU (Intensive Care Unit) healthcare settings. REMI-AI RDM has not been validated for and
is not indicated for detection of electrographic status epilepticus.
REMI-AI RDM conducts automated analysis of REMI EEG data in near real-time and provides
notifications of potential electrographic seizures (events) through the REMI System when
seizure prevalence of 10% or greater (indicating seizure activity of at least 30 seconds within a
5-minute rolling window) is detected. When seizure prevalence is displayed, the notification also
displays the corresponding event detection confidence. Notifications are intended to be used by
qualified clinicians who will exercise professional judgment in their application. Detected events
are also annotated in the associated REMI EEG record as an aide to the qualified physician’s
REMI EEG review.
Delays of up to several minutes may occur between the detection of an event and the
generation of an event notification, and are thus not a substitute for real-time monitoring. REMI-
AI RDM does not make any diagnostic conclusion about the subject's condition and is intended
as a physiological signal monitor. REMI-AI RDM is indicated for use with adult and pediatric
patients (6+ years).
6. Predicate Selection
In alignment with FDA Draft GuidanceBest Practices for Selecting a Predicate Device to
Support a Premarket Notification [510(k)] Submission - Draft Guidance for Industry and Food
and Drug Administration Staff, appropriate predicate devices have been selected. Potential
predicates were reviewed and the Ceribell Pocket EEG Seizure Detection module primary
predicate device was selected as it meets or exceeds the expected safety and performance,
does not have unmitigated user-related or design related safety issues, and is not associated
with any design-related recalls. A secondary predicate was selected in the REMI-AI Discrete
Detection Module as a secondary predicate in order to support some technological
characteristics. The secondary predicate also meets or exceeds the expected safety and
performance, does not have unmitigated user-related or design related safety issues, and is not
associated with any design-related recalls.
7. Substantial Equivalence
REMI-AI RDM has been developed in compliance with applicable FDA requirements and
guidance as well as with recognized standards. This submission includes required
documentation and testing data demonstrating substantial equivalence of REMI-AI RDM to its
predicate device. REMI-AI RDM has undergone Software Testing, Human Factors/Usability
testing, and Clinical Validation which demonstrate that it is safe and effective for its intended
use. Assessment of the technological characteristics, intended use, and conclusions drawn from
the verification tests, presented in their respective sections of this submission, demonstrate that
the device is as safe and effective as the legally marketed predicate devices.REMI-AI RDM - Traditional510(k)Submission
7.1 Summary of Technological Characteristics and Substantial Equivalence to Predicate
Devices
Attribute SubjectDevice PrimaryPredicateDevice SecondaryPredicateDevice
REMI-AIRapidDetectionModule CeribellPocketEEGDevice REMI-AIDiscreteDetectionModule
(K191301) (K231779)
Classificationand ClassIIper21CFR882.1400 ClassIIper21CFR882.1400 ClassIIper21CFR882.1400
Regulation Electroencephalograph Electroencephalograph Electroencephalograph
FDAProduct OMB-AutomaticEventDetection OMB-AutomaticEventDetection OMB-AutomaticEventDetection
Code(s) Software Software Software
OMC-ReducedMontageSystem
GWQ-FullMontageSystem
GXY-Electrodes
IntendedUse AnalysisofEEGsignaldatafor AnalysisofEEGsignaldatafor AnalysisofEEGsignaldatafor
detectionofseizureevents detectionofseizureevents detectionofseizureevents
IndicationsforUse The REMI-AI Rapid Detection TheCeribellPocketEEGDeviceis TheREMI-AIDiscreteDetection
Module (REMI-AI RDM) is a seizure intendedtorecordandstoreEEG Module(REMI-AIDDM)isindicated
detection module which is signals,andtopresenttheEEG fortheanalysisofREMI
integrated into the REMI Remote signalsinvisualandaudible RemoteEEGMonitoringSystem
EEG Monitoring System and is only formatsinrealtime.Thevisualand electroencephalogram(EEG)
indicated for use within non-ICU audiblesignalsassisttrained recordings.
(Intensive Care Unit) healthcare medicalstafftomakeneurological
settings. REMI-AI RDM has not diagnoses.ThePocketEEGDevice REMI-AIDDMis
been validated for and is not isintendedtobeusedina intendedtobeusedbyphysicians
indicated for detection of professionalhealthcarefacility qualifiedtoanalyzeandinterpret
electrographic status epilepticus. environment. EEGwhowillexerciseprofessional
judgmentinusingtheinformation.
Additionally,theEEGRecording Asanaidetothequalified
REMI-AI RDM conducts automated
ViewerSoftwarecomponentofthe physician’sREMIEEGreview,
analysis of REMI EEG data in near
PocketEEGDeviceincorporatesa REMI-AIDDMmarkspreviously
real-time and provides notifications
SeizureDetectioncomponentthat acquiredsectionsofREMIEEG
of potential electrographic seizures
isintendedtomarkpreviously thatmaycorrespondtoneurological
(events) through the REMI System
acquiredsectionsofEEG eventsofinterestindicativeof
when seizure prevalence of 10% or
recordingsinpatientsgreaterthan potentialelectrographicseizures
greater (indicating seizure activity of
orequalto18yearsofagethat lastingatleast10secondsin
at least 30 seconds within a 5-
maycorrespondtoelectrographic duration.REMI-AIDDMisindicated
minute rolling window) is detected.
seizuresinordertoassistqualified forusewithadultandpediatric
When seizure prevalence is
clinicalpractitionersinthe patients(6+years).
displayed, the notification also
assessmentofEEGtraces.The
displays the corresponding event
SeizureDetectioncomponent REMI-AIDDMdoesnotmarkREMI
detection confidence. Notifications
providesnotificationstotheuser EEGrecordsinrealtimeanddoes
are intended to be used by qualified
whendetectedseizureprevalence notprovideanydiagnostic
clinicians who will exercise
is“Frequent,”“Abundant,”or conclusionaboutthepatient's
professional judgment in their
“Continuous,”perthedefinitionsof conditiontotheuser.
application. Detected events are
theAmericanClinical
also annotated in the associated
NeurophysiologySocietyGuideline
REMI EEG record as an aide to the
14.Notificationsincludean
qualified physician’s REMI EEG
on-screendisplayonthePocket
review.Delays of up to several
EEGDeviceandtheoptional
minutes may occur between the
sendingofane-mailmessagetoa
detection of an event and the
clinician.Delaysofuptoseveral
generation of an event notification,
minutescanoccurbetweenthe
and are thus not a substitute for
beginningofaseizureandwhen
real-time monitoring. REMI-AI RDM
theSeizureDetectionnotifications
does not make anyREMI-AI RDM - Traditional510(k)Submission
Attribute SubjectDevice PrimaryPredicateDevice SecondaryPredicateDevice
REMI-AIRapidDetectionModule CeribellPocketEEGDevice REMI-AIDiscreteDetectionModule
(K191301) (K231779)
diagnosticconclusionaboutthe willbeshowntoauser.
subject'sconditionandisintended
asaphysiologicalsignalmonitor. ThePocketEEGDevicedoesnot
REMI-AIRDMisindicatedforuse provideanydiagnosticconclusion
withadultandpediatricpatients(6+ aboutthesubject'sconditionand
years). SeizureDetectionnotifications
cannotbeusedasasubstitutefor
realtimemonitoringofthe
underlyingEEGbyatrainedexpert.
Seizureevent REMI-AIRDMisaseizure TheCeribellPocketEEGseizure REMI-AIDDMdetects
detectionmodule detectionmodulethatanalyzesthe detectionmoduleanalyzesthelast electrographiceventsinpreviously
last5minutesofEEGinarolling 5minutesofEEGinarolling acquiredEEGdata.
windowandidentifiesseizure windowandidentifiesseizure
events. events.
Seizureevent Whenaseizureeventisdetected,a Whenaseizureeventisdetected,a Nonotificationsaregenerated
notifications notificationisgenerated.These notificationisgenerated.The
notificationsareprovidedtothe SeizureDetectionmodulealso
REMISystem(K230933)for providesnotificationsofdetected
interoperabledisplayontheREMI seizurebydisplayinganon-screen
Mobilesoftware. messageontheCeribellEEG
Recorderandtheoptionalsending
Notificationsincludeidentifyingan ofanemailmessage
eventthathasbeendetectedand
providestheprevalencevaluesand
algorithmconfidence.
Eventnotificationsarealso
annotatedintheEEGrecord.
Seizure Seizureprevalenceiscalculatedfor Seizureprevalence(definedas Seizureprevalenceisnot
prevalence the5-minuterollingwindow. seizureburden,orthepercentage calculated.
oftimeepochsclassifiedas
Notificationsandannotations seizure)iscalculatedforthe Noseizureprevalencenotifications
includeof: 5-minuterollingwindow. orannotations
● Prevalencevaluespresentedas
apercentagewhichcanrange Notificationsandannotations
from10%to100%. includeof:
● Frequentseizuredetectedif
seizureburdenis10%(30
secondsormore)
● Abundantseizureifgreaterthan
orequalto50%
● Continuousifgreaterthanor
equalto90%
Eventconfidence Confidenceiscalculatedfor Eventconfidenceisnotcalculated. Confidenceiscalculatedfor
detectedevents.Confidenceisa detectedevents.Confidenceisa
measurethattheeventisnota Noeventconfidenceincludedin measurethattheeventisnota
falsepositive. notificationsorannotations falsepositive.
Notificationsandannotations Nonotificationsarepresented.
includesof:
● Eventconfidencepresentedas Annotationsconsistof:
Low,Moderate,High,orVery ● EventconfidencepresentedasREMI-AI RDM - Traditional510(k)Submission
Attribute SubjectDevice PrimaryPredicateDevice SecondaryPredicateDevice
REMI-AIRapidDetectionModule CeribellPocketEEGDevice REMI-AIDiscreteDetectionModule
(K191301) (K231779)
High(alongwithcorresponding Low,Moderate,High,orVery
percentageranges) High(alongwithcorresponding
percentageranges)
Timebefore Severalminutes Severalminutes Notapplicable
notificationsmay
bepresented
Seizureevent REMI-AIRDMwillannotate EEG CeribellEEGPortalincludesa REMI-AIDDMwillannotateEEG
review recordstoidentifythedetected seizuredetectionmodulethatwill recordstoidentifythedetected
seizureeventtoaidinEEGreview. markEEGrecordstoidentifythe seizureeventtoaidinEEGreview.
Theseeventsareprovidedtothe detectedseizureeventtoaidin Theseeventsareprovidedtothe
REMISystem. EEGreview. REMISystem.
TheREMISystemstoresEEG TheREMISystemstoresEEG
recordsinastandardEEGformat recordsinastandardEEGformat
forviewinginaqualifiedEEG forviewinginaqualifiedEEG
viewingsoftware. viewingsoftware.
Useenvironment TheREMI-AIRDMisindicatedfor CeribellPocketEEGisusedina TheREMI-AIDDMisindicatedfor
useinnon-ICU(IntensiveCare professionalhealthcarefacility use inhealthcareorambulatory
Unit)healthcaresettings. environment. settings.
Software/system TheREMI-AIRDMproduces PocketEEGDeviceEEG TheREMI-AIDDMproduces
userinterface notificationsandannotationsthat RecordingViewersoftware annotationsthatareprovidedtothe
areprovidedtotheREMISystem REMISystem(K230933)inan
(K230933)inaninteroperableway. interoperableway.
TheREMISystemwasclearedwith TheREMISystemwasclearedwith
theabilitytoconductinteroperable theabilitytoconductinteroperable
communicationsfortransferofEEG communicationsfortransferofEEG
dataforthepurposeofanalysis dataforthepurposeofanalysis
modulesandreceivetheoutputsof modules andreceivetheoutputsof
anysuchanalysis. anysuchanalysis.
TheREMISystemdisplaysthis TheREMISystemprovidesthe
informationthroughtheREMI DDMoutputsasannotationsinthe
Mobilemedicalapplication,and EEGrecord.
providestheRDMoutputsas
annotationsintheEEGrecord.
Algorithminputs EEGdataacquiredfromREMI EEGacquiredfromaCeribellEEG EEGdataacquiredfromREMI
Sensorsplacedonapatient’sscalp. headbandplacedonapatient's Sensorsplacedonapatient’sscalp.
REMISensorsareacomponentof scalp.Thesensorbandisanother REMISensorsareacomponentof
theREMIRemoteEEGMonitoring componentoftheCeribellPocket theREMIRemoteEEGMonitoring
System. EEGsystem System.
Dataformat CommonEEGdataformats(e.g. Formatisnotpubliclyavailable. CommonEEGdataformats(e.g.
(viewersoftware) lay-dat)viewableinqualifiedEEG DataisviewableintheCeribell lay-dat)viewableinqualifiedEEG
viewingsoftware EEGPortalviewingsoftware viewingsoftware
Clinicalvalidation Demonstratedthroughstatistical Demonstratedthroughstatistical Demonstratedthroughstatistical
analysisofclinicaldata analysisofclinicaldata analysisofclinicaldataREMI-AI RDM - Traditional510(k)Submission
Attribute SubjectDevice PrimaryPredicateDevice SecondaryPredicateDevice
REMI-AIRapidDetectionModule CeribellPocketEEGDevice REMI-AIDiscreteDetectionModule
(K191301) (K231779)
Predetermined PCCPincludedinsubmission N/A AuthorizedPCCP
ChangeControl
Plan(PCCP)
8. Performance Data
REMI-AI RDM was tested to verify its design and to validate its safe and effective use for the
intended population and use environments. Results of this testing, included in this premarket
notification, support a determination of substantial equivalence. Testing included the following:
TestType Summary
SoftwareVerification Softwareverificationtestingwasconductedtoensuresoftwaremeets
specifiedrequirements.Interoperabilityverificationtestingwasconductedto
ensureinteroperabilityofREMI-AIRDMwiththeREMIRemoteEEG
MonitoringSystemandtoensurewirelessqualityofservice.
ClinicalValidation Thealgorithmwastestedagainstaclinicalreferencetoensureitmeets
clinicalperformancerequirements(asoutlinedinSection11,Clinical
Validation)
HumanFactorsValidationfor REMI-AIRDMEEGnotificationoutputswereevaluatedbyrepresentative
REMI-AIRDMoutputs cliniciansreviewerstovalidateusability
REMI-AIRDMEEGannotationoutputswereevaluatedbyrepresentative
epileptologistreviewerstovalidateusability
REMI-AI RDM met all predetermined acceptance criteria derived from the above listed tests and
demonstrated substantially equivalent performance as compared with the predicate devices.
9. Clinical Study
EEG data from adult and pediatric patients was used to 1) train the REMI-AI RDM algorithm to
identify potential electrographic seizure events in a broad patient population, and 2) validate the
REMI-AI RDM algorithm ability to identify potential electrographic seizure events within an
indicated patient population.
Patients at these sites wore REMI wireless EEG sensors at bilateral frontal and temporoparietal
scalp sites alongside standard-of-care 19-channel, full-montage, video-EEG for up to 7
continuous days in Epilepsy Monitoring Units (EMUs) or for up to 3 continuous days during
at-home ambulatory EEG monitoring.
The REMI-AI RDM validation data set consisted of 22 patient records with 54
consensus-determined electrographic seizures lasting at least 30 seconds in duration, and 22
patient records with no consensus-determined electrographic seizures, for a total validation
sample size of 44. All attempts were made to ensure diverse patient demographics. The
consensus-determined electrographic seizures represented in the validation data set include:
● Focal Seizures
● Focal Evolving To Generalized Seizures
● Generalized SeizuresREMI-AI RDM - Traditional510(k)Submission
10. Clinical Reference
EEG data used to generate a reference standard for REMI-AI RDM was collected from standard
19+channel wired 10-20 montage EEG records acquired concurrently with REMI 4-channel
EEG. Prior to inclusion in the validation data set, all patients’ EEG records underwent panel
review by 3 independent expert epileptologists. Experts consisted of a panel of 6 epileptologists,
holding certification by the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology or certification by the
American Board of Clinical Neurophysiology with Special Competency in Epilepsy Monitoring.
Consensus ground truth electrographic seizures and seizure negative determinations were
made using the wired EEG records when at least 2 of 3 members identified the presence or
absence of an electrographic seizure event.
Training and Clinical Reference Data Overview
Demographics by age are presented in Table 10.1 below.
Age Train TrainSz TrainNo-Sz Test TestSz TestNo-Sz
Child(≤21) 47(40%) 32(39%) 15(43%) 21(48%) 11(50%) 10(45%)
Adult(22+) 70(60%) 50(61%) 20(57%) 23(52%) 11(50%) 12(55%)
Total 117 82 35 44 22 22
Table10.1.DemographicsByAge.TrainisthesetofpatientrecordsusedtotrainthealgorithmandTestisthesetof
patientrecordsusedinthisvalidationanalysis.(Sz:SeizurePatients,No-Sz:Non-SeizurePatients)
Demographics by gender are presented in Table 10.2 below.
Gender Train TrainSz TrainNo-Sz Test TestSz TestNo-Sz
Male 53(45%) 40(49%) 13(37%) 21(48%) 11(50%) 10(45%)
Female 64(55%) 42(51%) 22(63%) 23(52%) 11(50%) 12(55%)
Total 117 82 35 44 22 22
Table10.2.DemographicsbyGender.TrainisthesetofpatientrecordsusedtotrainthealgorithmandTestisthe
setofpatientrecordsusedinthisvalidationanalysis.(Sz:SeizurePatients,No-Sz:Non-SeizurePatients)
A summary of electrographic seizure types included in REMI-AI RDM training and validation is
presented in Table 10.3 below.
SeizureType Train Test
Focal 257(47%) 17(31%)
FocalEvolvingToGeneralized 45(8%) 21(39%)
Generalized 243(45%) 16(30%)
Total 545 54
Table10.3.ElectrographicSeizureTypeCount.Trainisthesetofpatientrecordsusedtotrainthe
algorithmandTestisthesetofpatientrecordsusedinthisvalidationanalysis.
A summary of the duration of seizure record data, broken down by electrographic seizure type,
is presented in Table 10.4 below.
Focal FocalEvolvingToGeneralized Generalized
Duration(s) Train Test Train Test Train Test
<10 8(3%) 0(0%) 0(0%) 0(0%) 58(24%) 0(0%)
10-20 50(19%) 0(0%) 0(0%) 0(0%) 100(41%) 0(0%)
21-40 83(32%) 0(0%) 0(0%) 0(0%) 31(13%) 9(56%)
41-60 47(18%) 6(35%) 5(11%) 0(0%) 44(18%) 2(13%)
61-80 25(10%) 8(47%) 6(13%) 0(0%) 8(3%) 1(6%)
81-100 14(5%) 2(12%) 10(22%) 4(19%) 1(0%) 2(13%)REMI-AI RDM - Traditional510(k)Submission
101-120 11(4%) 1(6%) 5(11%) 10(48%) 1(0%) 2(13%)
121+ 19(7%) 0(0%) 19(42%) 7(33%) 0(0%) 0(0%)
Total 257 17 45 21 243 16
Table10.4.DurationofSeizuresbyElectrographicSeizureType.Trainisthesetofpatientrecordsusedtotrainthe
algorithmandTestisthesetofpatientrecordsusedinthisvalidationanalysis.
11. Clinical Validation
REMI-AI RDM validation was evaluated against a combined primary endpoint of Sensitivity >
70% and of a False Alarm Rate (FAR) < 0.446 False Positives (FP)/hr. REMI-AI RDM clinical
validation testing demonstrated that REMI-AI RDM achieved Event-Level Sensitivity > 70% (with
a calculated 95% CI lower bound of 78.9%) and FAR < 0.35 FP/hr (with a calculated CI upper
bound of 0.164 FP/hr).
Across all 22 patients with seizures, patient-level Sensitivity was 92.5%, with a 95% CI Lower
Bound of 84.8%. Per-patient Sensitivity was 100% for 23 of the 31 patients. At least one known
event was detected for all 22 patients with seizures, and every event was detected for 18 of the
22 patients.
Across all 44 patients, the subject-level FAR was 0.117 FP/hr, with a 95% CI Upper Bound of
0.176, and ranged between 0 to 1.03 FP/hr. There were 22 patients that had no more than one
FP (including 6 non-seizure patients), and 13 patients that had no FPs (including 6 non-seizure
patients).
Clinical Reference Data Overview
Sensitivity by age group and FAR by age group are presented in Table 11.1 below.
Parameter Pediatric(6-21years) Adult(22+years)
Sensitivity
SubjectswithSeizures n=11 n=11
Event-levelSensitivity 91.2% 85.0%
95%ConfidenceInterval 80.0,100.0 68.0,100.0
Subject-levelSensitivity 94.1% 90.9%
95%ConfidenceInterval 85.5,100.0 78.8100.0
FalseAlarmRate(FAR)
TotalSubjects n=21 n=23
Event-levelFAR 0.162FP/hr 0.070FP/hr
95%ConfidenceInterval 0.070,0.280 0.040,0.099
Subject-levelFAR 0.174FP/hr 0.064FP/hr
95%ConfidenceInterval 0.083,0.289 0.037,0.091
Table11.1.SensitivityandFalseAlarmRatebyAgeGroup(pediatricsvs.adults)
12. Predetermined Change Control Plan (PCCP)
The REMI-AI RDM has been cleared by the US FDA with an Authorized PCCP. The REMI-AI
RDM Authorized PCCP outlines authorized modifications intended to improve algorithm
performance through expansion of the training data and/or through optimizations of the
algorithm. The Authorized PCCP outlines REMI-AI RDM’s data management practices (i.e., how
data is collected, annotated, curated, stored, retained, controlled, and used), re-training
practices, how and when its performance is evaluated.REMI-AI RDM - Traditional510(k)Submission
The Authorized PCCP also defines validation requirements for all algorithm updates. Prior to
release, modifications are validated through testing against a previously established validation
data set as well as an updated validation data set. Updates to REMI-AI RDM will be
implemented per the Authorized PCCP and through the Software Update process described in
the user manual. Epitel will update the user manual following implemented changes and notify
customers of software updates and of any changes they may experience, and these changes
will be described in release notes viewable on the Epitel website.
13. Substantial Equivalence Conclusion
The REMI-AI Rapid Detection Module (RDM) subject device has the same intended use, similar
indications for use and incorporates the same fundamental technology as the legally marketed
predicate devices to which it was compared. Based on intended use, technological
characteristics, and performance testing, it can be concluded that the subject device, REMI-AI
RDM, is substantially equivalent to the identified predicate device.