October 1, 2024
Springbok, Inc.
Scott Magargee
Chief Executive Officer
110 Old Preston Ave
Charlottesville, Virginia 22902
Re: K241331
Trade/Device Name: MuscleView
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.1000
Regulation Name: Magnetic Resonance Diagnostic Device
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: LNH
Dated: August 19, 2024
Received: August 19, 2024
Dear Scott Magargee:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.07.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK241331 - Scott Magargee Page 2
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.K241331 - Scott Magargee Page 3
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Daniel M. Krainak, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
DHT8C: Division of Radiological
Imaging and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K241331
Device Name
MuscleView
Indications for Use (Describe)
MuscleView is used in adults and pediatrics aged 18 and older to automatically segment muscle and bone structures of the
lower extremities from magnetic resonance imaging using a machine learning-based approach. After segmentation, it can
provide derived metrics including muscle volume, bone volume, intramuscular fat percentage, and left/right asymmetry.
It is intended to be used by physicians who are trained to interpret MRI images, and serves as an initial method to segment
muscle and bone structures from one or more study series. The segmentation results need to be reviewed and edited using
appropriate software.
It is intended to only provide the segmentation and derived metrics for muscle and bone structures and cannot serve as
direct guidance for diagnosis of any diseases. This device is not intended for use with patients who have tumors in lower
limb.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFSection 5 – 510(k) Summary K241331
Device Name: MuscleView
Date Summary was Prepared: September 30th, 2024
1.Applicant:
Springbok, Inc.
110 Old Preston Ave
Charlottesville, VA 22902 USA
Contact Name: Scott Magargee – Chief Executive Officer
Phone: 1-215-680-9078
Fax: N/A
E-mail: scott.magargee@springbokanalytics.com
2.Device:
Trade Name: MuscleView
Common Name: MuscleView
Model Number: v1.0
Product Code: LNH
Regulation Description: Magnetic Resonance Diagnostic Device
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.1000
Device Class: II
3.Predicate Devices:
Trade Name: AMRA Profiler
Manufacturer: AMRA Medical ABAddress: 68 Southwood Ter SOUTHBURY, CT 06488
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.1000
Regulation Name: Magnetic resonance diagnostic device
Device Class: Class II
Product Code: LNH
510(k) Number: K173749
510(k) Clearance Date: Dec 06, 2018
4. Device Description
MuscleView is a software only product that uses a machine learning-based approach for the
automatic segmentation of musculoskeletal structures from MRI. Based on the segmentation,
metrics such as volume and length of the segmented structures are calculated.
The software has the following modules: user management, data management, image processing,
AI segmentation & 3D model viewer and metrics calculation. User management involves
authentication and access to the software and its results. Data management involves medical
image data and its interactions with the system workflow. Image processing involves Pre-
processing the DICOM data to create a combined continuous 3D volume(s) of series with similar
settings for use in AI segmentation. The segmentation & 3D model viewer module handles training
data and algorithms to obtain the pre-trained models and algorithms to update models. Metric
calculation module handles the final calculation of relevant metrics.
Input data is preprocessed and prepared for 3D volume segmentation of the musculoskeletal
structures. A library of already contoured expert cases is utilized to train the machine learning
algorithms, specifically convolutional neural networks (CNNs) perform automated segmentation.
This process is in an auxiliary module for AI training.
MuscleView is intended to be used by physicians who are trained to interpret MRI images, and
serves as an initial method to segment muscle and bone structures from one or more study series.
The segmentation results need to be reviewed and edited using appropriate software. This device
is not intended for use with patients who have tumors in lower limb. The currently supported
anatomical regions for automatic segmentation are 80 different muscles and bones of the lower
extremity. The supported musculoskeletal structures for each region are shown below in Table 1.Upon segmentation, a suite of metrics regarding the segmented 3D volumes is provided. It is
intended to only provide the segmentation and derived metrics for muscle and bone structures
and cannot serve as direct guidance for diagnosis of any diseases. These metrics include
segmentation volume, fat infiltration (if applicable), and limb side asymmetry. The metrics are
provided in conjunction with an interactive visualization of the 3D segmentation results.
The software is deployed within a private network on a workstation with an advanced graphic
processing unit (GPU) and runs as a service. A web-based interface is used to access the service
and manage the data transfer, automatic segmentation, and visualization.
Table 1: List of supported musculoskeletal structures for segmentation. Each ROI is supported
for both left and right sides, which are analyzed and validated independently. *Gemelli is a
grouping of the superior and inferior gemellus. **Fibulari is a grouping of the fibularis brevis and
fibularis longus. ***Phalangeal extensors are a grouping of the extensor digitorum longus,
extensor hallucis longus, and fibularis tertius.
Structure Name Structure Type
Adductor brevis Muscle
Adductor longus Muscle
Adductor magnus Muscle
Biceps femoris (long head) Muscle
Biceps femoris (short head) Muscle
Fibulari** Muscle
Flexor Digitorum Longus Muscle
Flexor Hallucis Longus Muscle
Gastrocnemius (lateral head) Muscle
Gastrocnemius (medial Muscle
head)
Gemelli* Muscle
Gluteus maximus Muscle
Gluteus medius Muscle
Gluteus minimus Muscle
Gracilis MuscleIliacus Muscle
Obturator externus Muscle
Obturator internus Muscle
Pectineus Muscle
Phalangeal extensors*** Muscle
Piriformis Muscle
Popliteus Muscle
Psoas major Muscle
Quadratus femoris Muscle
Quadratus lumborum Muscle
Rectus femoris Muscle
Sartorius Muscle
Semimembranosus Muscle
Semitendinosus Muscle
Soleus Muscle
Tensor fasciae latae Muscle
Tibialis anterior Muscle
Tibialis Posterior Muscle
Vastus intermedius Muscle
Vastus lateralis Muscle
Vastus medialis Muscle
Pelvis Bone
Femur Bone
Tibia Bone
Fibula Bone
5. Indications for Use Statement
MuscleView is used in adults and pediatric patients aged 18 and older to automatically segment
muscle and bone structures of the lower extremities from magnetic resonance imaging using amachine learning-based approach. After segmentation, it can provide derived metrics including
muscle volume, bone volume, intramuscular fat percentage, and left/right asymmetry.
It is intended to be used by physicians who are trained to interpret MRI images, and serves as an
initial method to segment muscle and bone structures from one or more study series. The
segmentation results need to be reviewed and edited using appropriate software.
It is intended to only provide the segmentation and derived metrics for muscle and bone structures
and cannot serve as direct guidance for diagnosis of any diseases. This device is not intended
for use with patients who have tumors in lower limb.
6. Summary of Technological Characteristics Comparison
The similarities and differences between the technological characteristics of the two products are
shown in Table 2. The key difference is the detailed implementation of the automated
segmentation algorithms. Testing demonstrates that the differences do not raise new questions
of safety or effectiveness.
Table 2. Summary of technological characteristic comparison.
Topic AMRA Profiler (510k Number: MuscleView
K173749)
Physical A service that is provided with a Software package that operates on a
Characteristics cloud-based service using an virtual machine within off-the-shelf
automated image-analysis pipeline hardware
(with manual quality control for scan
preprocessing and label quality
control)
Computer Not applicable PC Compatible
DICOM The service processes DICOM The software processes DICOM
Standard compliant image data in accordance compliant image data
Compliance with a required MRI protocol.
Modalities MRI MRI
MRI Collected Series: 3D Dixon water and The same except that we support a
Parameters of fat phase. larger variability in scan properties
Importance Region of Interest: Lower extremity, and coverage
Upper body as well
Supported Field Strength:Direction of Capture: Axial
Supported In-Plane Resolution:
Supported Slice Spacing:
Note: Rigid conformity to MRI
protocol is needed.
User Interface Concierge Service. Data is provided The software is designed for use on
and analyzed, and results returned a workstation with a web-based user
interface. Functionalities are largely
the same.
Segmentation 12 individual muscles and 6 muscle Eighty (8 bones, 72 muscles)
Structures groups across the lower and upper individual structures on both the left
extremity and liver and right side for the lower extremity
focused region.
Segmentation Muscle Volume, Fat Fraction Structure volume, muscle fat
Metrics infiltration, and derived metrics
including asymmetry, muscle length,
and cross-sectional area
Overall Labeled muscle segmentations AI segmentation model-based
Segmentation automatically generated using non- approach using a library of expert
Method rigid image registration to atlases contours for training, MuscleView
utilizing 2D analysis techniques uses a machine learning-based
method to train CNNs from expert
contours to perform segmentation on
the target images to generate
contours
Support of No No
Manual Editing
by customer
7. Performance Data
The safety and performance of MuscleView have been evaluated and verified in accordance with
software specifications and applicable performance standards through software verification and
validation testing. Non-clinical verification and validation test results, including model performance
and software usability, established that the device meets its design requirements and intended
use, that it is as safe and as effective as the AMRA Profiler (510k Number: K173749), and that
no new issues of safety and effectiveness were raised.Further, during development of the software, potential hazards were controlled by a risk
management plan including risk analysis, risk mitigation, verification, and validation.
8. Summary of AI Validation
The artificial intelligence (AI) responsible for muscle segmentation within MuscleView was trained
and tested on MRI scans generated across varying patients, demographics (including – but not
limited to – gender, age and ethnicity), scan sites, and MRI parameters (including manufacturer,
magnetic field strength, series settings/types, matrix size, field of view, and scan resolution). See
Table 3 below detailing variation in the data.
Table 3. Summary of AI training and validation dataset’s demographics. *Demographic data
were not available for some scans.
Factor Groups Training data Validation data
Number of unique scans n/a 1658 148
Number of unique subjects n/a 1294 148
Male (%) 1192* 102
Gender
Female (%) 374* 46
Mean 29 31.7
Age*
Standard Deviation 13.4 15.5
% Non-Hispanic White 52 52
% Hispanic/Latino 18 18
% Black/African American 14 14
% Asian 10 10
Ethnicity % Australian 2 2
(based on regional
% American Indian /
demographics) <1 <1
Alaska Native
% Native Hawaiian /
<1 <1
Pacific Islander
% Australian Aboriginal
<1 <1
2
% Other 2Siemens 680 74
GE Medical Systems 435 28
Philips Medical Systems 82 29
Canon 1 4
MRI Manufacturer
Other (Toshiba) or
460 13
Unknown
Performance testing of segmentation and associated metrics was performed by comparing the
results obtained to a reference standard developed by manual segmentation performed by
experts. Validation Tests met the acceptance criteria if the dice similarity coefficient (DSC) or
volume difference (VDt) was below interobserver variability.
Independence of test data from training data was ensured in several ways. (1) MRI Data used to
train the AI was explicitly separate from validation data (both as MRI scans and as subjects), (2)
the majority (70%) of datasets in the validation set came from imaging centers and organizations
not used in the train datasets (19 new sites), and (3) the personnel involved in establishing the
reference standard for the AI were not involved in the algorithm's development to ensure the
independence of training and testing.
The AI segmentation was validated on the 80 musculoskeletal structures, demonstrating their
accuracy across many varying scan and patient cases as related to the gold-standard of label
generation – interobserver repeatability of manually vetted labels. The segmentation performance
and derived metrics of all ROIs passed the predetermined acceptance criteria in both healthy and
patient population subgroups, i.e. a one-sample T-test between the results of the validation set
and the acceptance criteria threshold (the 95% confidence interval from the interobserver
repeatability of manually vetted labels). A desired outcome to “approve” a ROI passed validation
was a mean better than or equal to the acceptance criteria (a significant T-test showing the sample
differed significantly better than the acceptance criteria threshold). Each musculoskeletal
structure either used dice similarity coefficient (DSC) or volume difference (VDt) as its comparison
metric, dependent on what best captured the structure’s segmentation accuracy. The healthy and
patient subgroup analysis split the validation dataset into two groups, healthy (athlete and healthy
control) and patients (amputees, muscular dystrophy patients, and patient post-surgery). The
subgroup analysis across different manufacturers (GE, Siemens, Phillips, Toshiba, Canon) also
showed consistent performance, indicating high generalizability of our product. The age/biologic
sex subgroup analysis (males 18 – 21 years old, females 18 – 21 years old, males >21 years old,
and females >21 years old) also demonstrated that each subgroup passed the predeterminedacceptance criteria. For the 95% confidence interval for all structures and subgroups, see Table
4 (DSC) and Table 5 (VDt).
Table 4: Dice similarity coefficient 95% confidence interval for all 80 musculoskeletal structures
across all subgroup analyses.Table 5: Volume difference (ml) 95% confidence interval for all 80 musculoskeletal structures across
all subgroup analyses.9. Substantial Equivalence Conclusion
In conclusion, MuscleView is intended for use in adults and pediatric patients aged 18 and older
to quantify automatically segment muscle and bone structures of the lower extremities from
magnetic resonance imaging and providing provide derived metrics including muscle volume,
bone volume, intramuscular fat percentage, and left/right asymmetry and other derived metrics.
It has similar intended use and indications for use statement as the AMRA Profiler (510k Number:
K173749). This 510(k) submission includes information on the MuscleView technological
characteristics, as well as performance data and verification and validation activities
demonstrating that MuscleView is as safe and effective as the AMRA Profiler (510k Number:
K173749), and does not raise different questions of safety and effectiveness.