September 24, 2024
Shanghai United Imaging Intelligence Co., Ltd.
℅ Nima Akhlaghi
Director, Digital Health, AI & Imaging Center Lead
MCRA Digital Health
803 7th Street NW, 3rd Floor
WASHINGTON, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20001
Re: K242292
Trade/Device Name: uAI Easy Triage ICH
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2080
Regulation Name: Radiological Computer Aided Triage And Notification Software
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QAS
Dated: August 1, 2024
Received: August 2, 2024
Dear Nima Akhlaghi:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.07.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK242292 - Nima Akhlaghi Page 2
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K242292 - Nima Akhlaghi Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
for
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureI
DEPARTMENT OF HEAL TH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: 0MB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
===================
Submission Number (if known)
K242292
IDe vice Name
uAI Easy Triage ICH
Indications for Use (Describe)
uAI Easy Triage ICH is a radiological computer-assisted triage and notification software device
indicated for analysis of non-enhanced head CT images. The device is intended to assist hospital
networks and trained radiologists in workflow triage by flagging and prioritizing studies with
suspected positive findings of lntracranial Hemorrhage (ICH).
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
D
[Z] Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
'~n agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid 0MB number."K242292
510 (k) SUMMARY
1. Date of Preparation:
August 01, 2024
2. Sponsor Identification
Shanghai United Imaging Intelligence Co., Ltd.
No. 701 Yunjin Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai, 200232,
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Primary Contact Correspondent ：
MCRA Digital Health
Contact Person: Nima Akhlaghi
Position: Director, Digital Health, AI & Imaging Center Lead
Tel: 202-742-3889
Email: nakhlaghi@mcra.com
Applicant Contact Person:
Zhao Xiaojing
Position: Quality & Regulatory Manager
Tel: +86-021-67076888-5386
Email: xiaojing.zhao@uii-ai.com
3. Identification of Proposed Device
Trade Name: uAI Easy Triage ICH
Common Name: Radiological computer aided triage and notification software
Model(s): uAI Easy Triage ICH
Regulatory Information
Classification Name: Radiological computer aided triage and notification software
Classification: II
Product Code: QAS
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2080
Review Panel: Radiology
4. Identification of Predicate Device(s)
Page 1 of 12K242292
Predicate Device
510(k) Number: K221716
Device Name: CINA
5. Device Description
uAI Easy Triage ICH is a radiological computer-assisted triage and notification
software intended to assist radiologists by flagging potential intracranial hemorrhage
(ICH) in non-contrast head CT images. The Triage Software is a component of the uAI
Easy Triage platform, a comprehensive medical imaging communication system
designed to integrate and deploy specialized image processing applications.
The uAI Easy Triage ICH algorithm uses artificial intelligence CNN (convolutional
neural networks) and advanced image processing to triage the non-contrast CT images
for suspicious intracranial hemorrhage.
To train and internally test this ICH CADt device, a total of 9791 data points were
collected from multiple sites as well as cases in China. Only cases that met the
inclusion criteria were used. The reference standard (ground truth) was established in
the form of ICH positive/negative by radiologists.
To clarify, 9791 cases were only used for training and internal testing and final
validation data was from USA and independent from those used for training and
internal testing.
6. Indications for use
uAI Easy Triage ICH is a radiological computer-assisted triage and notification
software device indicated for analysis of non-enhanced head CT images. The device is
intended to assist hospital networks and trained radiologists in workflow triage by
flagging and prioritizing studies with suspected positive findings of Intracranial
Hemorrhage (ICH).
7. Summary of Technological Characteristics
uAI Easy Triage ICH is a radiological computer-assisted triage and notification
software intended to assist radiologists by flagging potential ICH in non-contrast head
CT images. The software is a component of the uAI Easy Triage platform, a
Page 2 of 12K242292
comprehensive medical imaging communication system designed to integrate and
deploy specialized image processing applications.
The uAI Easy Triage ICH alerts users to new studies with suspicious ICH findings via
pop-up notifications. The software provides both active and passive notification
mechanisms. Active notifications are presented as an alert icon with a count of pending
cases, and an alert status bar displaying patient details, suspected findings, and the time
of examination. Passive notifications are represented by an icon beside the patient's
name in the list for cases with detected ICH findings. Additionally, the application
offers a DICOM image preview feature for radiologists to review. This preview is
strictly informational, devoid of diagnostic markers, and is not to be used for definitive
diagnosis.
The uAI Easy Triage ICH embodies the core algorithmic technology that identifies
image characteristics consistent with intracranial hemorrhage. The application reads
DICOM files, verifies their compatibility with the prescribed acquisition protocols,
executes the triage algorithm, and communicates findings in DICOM format,
compatible with the uAI Easy Triage Platform.
Page 3 of 12K242292
Table 1 Substantial Equivalence Table
Proposed Device Predicate Device
Item Remark
uAI Easy Triage ICH CINA（K221716）
Radiological Computer Aided Radiological Computer Aided
Device Classification Name Same
Triage And Notification Software Triage And Notification Software
Product Code QAS QAS Same
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.2080 21 CFR 892.2080 Same
Device Class II II Same
Classification Panel Radiology Radiology Same
uAI Easy Triage ICH is a
Cina is a radiological computer Compared to predicate device, the
radiological computer-assisted proposed device provides one
aided triage and notification
triage and notification software applications for ICH while the
software indicated for use in the
predicate device CINA (K221716)
Intended Use/Indications for device indicated for analysis of
analysis of (1) non-enhanced head provides two applications for ICH
Use
non-enhanced head CT images.
CT images and (2) CT and LVO.
The device is intended to assist
angiography of the head. uAI Easy Triage ICH and the
hospital networks and trained predicate device CINA(K221716)
The device is intended to assist
radiologists in workflow triage by have the same intended use
Page 4 of 12K242292
Proposed Device Predicate Device
Item Remark
uAI Easy Triage ICH CINA（K221716）
flagging and prioritizing studies hospital networks and trained and\indications for use in terms of
finding suspected intracranial
with suspected positive findings of radiologists in workflow triage by
hemorrhage in non-enhanced head
Intracranial Hemorrhage (ICH). flagging and communicating
CT, flagging suspected cases, and
suspected positive findings of (1)
indicating the case to the attention of
head CT images for Intracranial the clinician.
Hemorrhage (ICH) and (2) head
CT angiography for large vessel
occlusion (LVO) of the anterior
circulation (distal ICA, MCA-M1
or proximal MCA-M2).
Cina uses an artificial intelligence
algorithm to analyze images and
highlight cases with detected (1)
ICH or (2) LVO on a standalone
Web application in parallel to the
ongoing standard of care image
interpretation. The user is
presented with notifications for
cases with suspected ICH or LVO
Page 5 of 12K242292
Proposed Device Predicate Device
Item Remark
uAI Easy Triage ICH CINA（K221716）
findings.
Notifications include compressed
preview images that are meant for
informational purposes only, and
are not intended for diagnostic use
beyond notification. The device
does not alter the original medical
image, and it is not intended to be
used as a diagnostic device.
The results of Cina are intended to
be used in conjunction with other
patient information and based on
professional judgement to assist
with triage/prioritization of
medical images. Notified
clinicians are ultimately
responsible for reviewing full
images per the standard of care.
Page 6 of 12K242292
Proposed Device Predicate Device
Item Remark
uAI Easy Triage ICH CINA（K221716）
User population Radiologist Radiologist Same
Anatomical region of interest Head Head Same
Compared to predicate device, the
proposed device supports non-
contrast head CT data for ICH
application while the predicate device
Non-contrast CT scan of the head
support non-contrast head CT data for
Data acquisition protocol Non-contrast CT scan of the head or neck and CT angiogram images ICH application or neck and brain CT
of the brain angiogram data for LVO application.
The difference between the proposed
device and the predicate device will
not impact the safety and
effectiveness of the subject device.
DICOM information about the DICOM information about the
View DICOM data Same
patient, study and current image patient, study and current image
No; device does not mark, No; device does not mark,
Segmentation of region of
highlight, or direct users’ attention highlight, or direct users’ attention Same
interest
to a specific location in the to a specific location in the
Page 7 of 12K242292
Proposed Device Predicate Device
Item Remark
uAI Easy Triage ICH CINA（K221716）
original image original image
Artificial intelligence algorithm Artificial intelligence algorithm
Algorithm Same
with database of images with database of images
Notification /
Yes Yes Same
Prioritization
Presentation of a preview of the Presentation of a preview of the
study for initial assessment not study for initial assessment not
meant for diagnostic purposes. meant for diagnostic purposes.
Preview
The device operates in parallel The device operates in parallel Same
images
with the standard of care, which with the standard of care, which
remains the default option for all remains the default option for all
cases. cases.
Alteration of
No No Same
original image
Removal of No No Same
Page 8 of 12K242292
Proposed Device Predicate Device
Item Remark
uAI Easy Triage ICH CINA（K221716）
cases from
worklist queue
Compared to predicate device, the
- ICH image processing proposed device have same software
- LVO and ICH image processing
structure and add an alert icon
applications
applications module to pop-up the suspected
Structure - uAI Easy Triage Platform, positive findings of ICH. The
- Cina Platform (worklist and
difference between the proposed
including Alert Icon, Patient
Image Viewer) device and the predicate device will
Management, and Image Viewer.
not impact the safety and
effectiveness of the subject device.
Page 9 of 12K242292
8. Performance Data
The following performance data were provided in support of the substantial
equivalence determination.
Biocompatibility
Not Applicable to the proposed device, because the device is stand-alone software.
Electrical Safety and Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC)
Not Applicable to the proposed device, because the device is stand-alone software.
Software Verification and Validation
Software verification and validation testing was provided to demonstrate safety and
efficacy of the proposed device.
Per FDA Guidance “GUIDANCE FOR THE CONTENT OF PRE-MARKET
SUBMISSIONS FOR SOFTWARE CONTAINED IN DEVICES”, dated June 14,
2023, the Level of Concern of the software contained in the proposed device is
determined to be: Basic Documentation Level.
Those documentations include:
• Software Description
• Risk management File
• Software Requirements Specification (SRS)
• Software Architecture Diagram
• Software Development Environment Description
• Software Verification and Validation
• Software Version History
• Cybersecurity Documents
Animal Study
No animal study was required.
Clinical Studies
No clinical study was required.
Performance Testing
Algorithm training of uAI Portal software has been conducted on images collected
from China as training dataset. The dataset ensures a variety of data for different gender,
Page 10 of 12K242292
age, equipment and CT protocol. Algorithm validation has been conducted on data
from the USA. To validate the uAI Easy Triage ICH software from a clinical
perspective, the AI-based algorithm contained in the product underwent a retrospective
study to evaluate the performance of uAI Easy Triage ICH in terms of sensitivity,
specificity and time to notification to identify/notify patients with suspected
Intracranial Hemorrhage (ICH) processing non-contrast CT images.
Sensitivity and specificity of uAI Easy Triage ICH in processing of non-contrast head
CT have been analyzed by comparison to a ground truth established by majority read
of 3 U.S.-board-certified neuroradiologists.
A total of 295 non-contrast CT scans (studies) were obtained from different zip codes
across four U.S. states. There were approximately equal numbers of positive and
negative cases (147 of images with ICH and 148 without ICH, respectively) included
in the analysis.
Regarding the validation of the algorithm, the test data was used independently from
that used for training, tuning and internal testing dataset.
The validation data demographic information is summarized below.
Table 2 Clinical testing data subgroup information
Subgroup Breakdown Sample Size
Male 49%
Gender
Female 51%
18-45 17%
Age Ranges (Years) 45-65 36%
65+ 47%
White 63%
Race Group Black 18%
others 19%
GE 17%
Equipment Philips 21%
Siemens 62%
Intraparenchymal Hemorrhage (IPH) 30%
Intraventricular Hemorrhage (IVH) 17%
ICH Subtypes Subarachnoid Hemorrhage (SAH) 24%
Subdural Hemorrhage (SDH) 22%
Extradural Hemorrhage (EDH) 0.3%
Comparing the uAI Easy Triage ICH software output to the ground truth, the sensitivity
and specificity of uAI Easy Triage ICH are 92% (95% CI: 86%-96%) and 95% (95%
CI: 90%-98%), respectively, exceeding the acceptance criteria of 80%.
Multiple subgroups of interest were considered in the analysis. In fact, the validation
data was acquired from different regions across the U.S. to account for race/ethnicity
Page 11 of 12K242292
in the intended U.S. patient population. Detailed subgroup analysis were reported in
the labeling.
The uAI Easy Triage ICH Time to Notification was measured during the study. The
average Time to Notification in seconds was 41.1 with a 95% confidence interval (CI)
for the mean equaling (40.1, 42.1).
In conclusion, the performance of the study for the validation of uAI Easy Triage ICH
demonstrates that the device is effective for triage and notification as the performance
levels (sensitivity and specificity) meet the predefined acceptance criteria and the time
to notification of the device is similar to the predicate device’s time.
Other Standards and Guidance
 NEMA PS 3.1 - 3.20 Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM)
Set
 ISO 14971 Medical devices – Application of risk management to medical devices
(Third Edition 2019-12).
 IEC 62304 Medical device software - Software life cycle processes (Edition 1.1
2015-06 CONSOLIDATED VERSION).
 Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality System Considerations and Content of
Premarket Submissions (Document issued on September 27, 2023).
9. Substantially Equivalent (SE) Conclusion
Compare to the predicate device, the subject device has a subset of the predicate
application which resulted in a limited indication for use. The subject device has
similar technological characteristics compare to the predicate device and the difference
does not raise any new question of safety and effectiveness. Therefore the subject
device is substantially equivalent to the proposed predicate.
Page 12 of 12