January 23, 2026
Boston Scientific Cardiac Diagnostic Technologies, Inc.
Meghan Styles
Regulatory Affairs Specialist
2900 37th Street NW
Building 003
Rochester, Minnesota 55901
Re: K243349
Trade/Device Name: BodyGuardian Remote Monitoring System (BGRMS v3.0)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 870.1025
Regulation Name: Arrhythmia Detector And Alarm (Including ST-Segment Measurement And Alarm)
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: DSI, QYX
Dated: October 25, 2024
Received: October 28, 2024
Dear Meghan Styles:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.02
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK243349 - Meghan Styles Page 2
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).K243349 - Meghan Styles Page 3
Sincerely,
JENNIFER W. SHIH -S
Jennifer Kozen
Assistant Director
Division of Cardiac Electrophysiology,
Diagnostics, and Monitoring Devices
Office of Cardiovascular Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K243349
Device Name
BodyGuardian Remote Monitoring System (BGRMS v3.0)
Indications for Use (Describe)
The BodyGuardian™ Remote Monitoring System detects and monitors cardiac arrhythmias in ambulatory patients, when
prescribed by a physician or other qualified healthcare professional.
The BodyGuardian Remote Monitoring System is intended for use with adult and pediatric patients who are at least 29
days old in clinical and non-clinical settings to collect and transmit electrocardiogram (ECG) and other health parameters
to healthcare professionals for monitoring and evaluation. Health parameters, such as heart rate and ECG data, are
collected from external devices such as ECG sensors.
The BodyGuardian Remote Monitoring System does not provide any diagnosis.
Contraindications:
The BodyGuardian Remote Monitoring System is contraindicated for those patients requiring attended, in-hospital
monitoring for life threatening arrhythmias. Not for use for detection or notification of hemodynamically unstable or life-
threatening arrhythmias or cardiac events requiring urgent medical response.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFK243349
2900 37th Street NW
Building 003
Rochester, MN 55901
1-800-509-0503 Tel
www.cdx.bostonscientific.com
510(k) Summary
1. Submitter
Boston Scientific Cardiac Diagnostic Technologies, Inc.
2900 37th Street NW
Building 003
Rochester, MN 55901
Contact: Meghan Styles
Regulatory Specialist
Phone: 651.582.5096
Email: meghan.styles@cdxbsci.com
Date Prepared: 21 January 2026
2. Device
Trade Names: BodyGuardian™ Remote Monitoring System
510(k) Number: K243349
Common Name: Arrythmia detector and alarm
Product Code/Panel: DSI, Cardiovascular and QYX, Outpatient Cardiac Telemetry
Device Class and Panel: Class II
Classification Regulation: 21 CFR 870.1025
3. Predicate Device
Trade Name: BodyGuardian™ Remote Monitoring System
Manufacturer: Boston Scientific Cardiac Diagnostic Technologies, Inc. (formerly Preventice Technologies,
Inc.)
510(k) Number: K192732, 26 March 2020
Common Name: Arrythmia detector and alarm
Product Code/Panel: DSI, Cardiovascular
Device Class and Panel: Class II
Classification Regulation: 21 CFR 870.1025
Page 1 of 6K243349
Secondary Predicate: SmartCardia 7L
510(k) Number: K240653, 31 October 2024
Common Name: Arrythmia detector and alarm
Product Code/Panel: QYX Cardiovascular
Device Class and Panel: Class II
Classification Regulation: 21 CFR 870.1025
4. Indication for Use
The BodyGuardian™ Remote Monitoring System detects and monitors cardiac arrhythmias in ambulatory
patients, when prescribed by a physician or other qualified healthcare professional.
The BodyGuardian Remote Monitoring System is intended for use with adult and pediatric patients who are
at least 29 days old in clinical and non-clinical settings to collect and transmit electrocardiogram (ECG) and
other health parameters to healthcare professionals for monitoring and evaluation. Health parameters,
such as heart rate and ECG data, are collected from external devices such as ECG sensors.
The BodyGuardian Remote Monitoring System does not provide any diagnosis.
Contraindications
The BodyGuardian Remote Monitoring System is contraindicated for those patients requiring attended, in-
hospital monitoring for life threatening arrhythmias. Not for use for detection or notification of
hemodynamically unstable or life-threatening arrhythmias or cardiac events requiring urgent medical
response.
5. Device Description
The BodyGuardian Remote Monitoring System (BGRMS) is a system for recording and analyzing ECG data
for cardiac arrhythmias to assist healthcare professionals, including ECG technicians at 24/7 attended
analysis centers in evaluating a patient’s cardiac health. Reports are generated for clinician review, that
provide analysis and summary of the ECG data collected during a patient’s monitoring study. Both the
predicate and proposed devices, feature a modular design inclusive of outpatient cardiac telemetry
(commonly called mobile cardiac telemetry (MCT)), cardiac event monitor and connected/non-connected
Holter modalities. Components in the system external to the software include ECG monitors, electrodes,
mobile phones and apps.
The BGRMS System includes the following main components:
• ECG monitor – a patient worn device for ECG waveform data collection and transmission, utilized
with compatible electrodes
• Mobile App – applications that execute on an off-the-shelf (OTS) smartphone to communicate
with the ECG monitor and the PatientCare Server for collection and transmission of data
• PatientCare – server software responsible for receiving, storing, analyzing, and displaying and
reporting data gathered from the ECG monitors; includes the ECG analysis algorithm BeatLogic™
• AI-Based Device Software Functionality (AI-DSF) – Automated classification of continuous
Page 2 of 6K243349
ECG based on the proprietary BeatLogic™ AI algorithm. BeatLogic consists of an ensemble of
deep neural networks (DNNs), trained on real-world patient data and post-processing logic that
combines the DNN output to produce individual beat, rhythm, and waveform classifications. This
output is intended to be reviewed and confirmed by healthcare professionals to assist in
diagnosis.
6. Substantial Equivalence
Predicate: BodyGuardian Remote Secondary Predicate Device for QYX Proposed: BodyGuardian Remote
Characteristic Monitoring System SmartCardia 7L Monitoring System
K192732 K240653 K243349
The SmartCardia 7L Platform is
intended for: 1. Patients who
experience transient symptoms that
may suggest cardiac arrhythmia. The BodyGuardian Remote
2. Patients who require monitoring of Monitoring System detects and
effect of drugs to control ventricular monitors cardiac arrhythmias in
The BodyGuardian Remote rate in various atrial arrhythmias ( ambulatory patients, when
Monitoring System detects and e.g. atrial fibrillation). prescribed by a physician or other
monitors cardiac arrhythmias in 3. Patients with symptoms that may qualified healthcare professional.
ambulatory patients, when be due to cardiac arrhythmias. These The BodyGuardian Remote
prescribed by a physician or other may include but are not limited to Monitoring System is intended for
qualified healthcare professional. symptoms such as: a) dizziness or use with adult and pediatric patients
Not for use with patients requiring lightheadedness; b) syncope of who are at least 29 days old in clinical
attended, In-hospital monitoring for unknown etiology in which and non-clinical settings to collect
life-threatening arrhythmias. arrhythmias are suspected or need to and transmit electrocardiogram (ECG)
The Preventice BodyGuardian be excluded; and c) dyspnea and other health parameters to
Remote Monitoring System is (shortness of breath). healthcare professionals for
intended for use with adult and 4. Patients recovering from cardiac monitoring and evaluation. Health
pediatric patients in clinical and surgery or interventional procedures parameters, such as heart rate and
Indications for use non-clinical settings to collect and who are indicated for outpatient ECG data, are collected from external
transmit health parameters to arrhythmia monitoring. devices such as ECG sensors.
5. ECG data recorded by the device
healthcare professionals for The BodyGuardian Remote
can be analyzed by other processing
monitoring and evaluation. Health Monitoring System does not provide
systems to provide Holter style
parameters are collected from a any diagnosis.
reports Measurements include:
variety of commercially available,
electrocardiogram (ECG signal), R-R
external plug-in devices such as ECG
interval, Heart Rate. Notification Contraindications
sensors, Weight Scales, Blood
alerts can be set for one or more of The BodyGuardian Remote
Pressure Meters and Pulse
these measures. Monitoring System is contraindicated
Oximeters.
The SmartCardia 7L Platform is for those patients requiring attended,
The Preventice BodyGuardian
indicated for use on patients who are in-hospital monitoring for life
Remote Monitoring System does
18 years of age or older to provide threatening arrhythmias. Not for use
not provide any diagnosis.
monitoring of physiological for detection or notification of
information. It is intended for use in a hemodynamically unstable or life-
physician office, outpatient facility, or threatening arrhythmias or cardiac
in the patient's home. events requiring urgent medical
response.
Contraindications
1. The SmartCardia 7L Platform is
contraindicated for use for detection
Page 3 of 6K243349
Predicate: BodyGuardian Remote Secondary Predicate Device for QYX Proposed: BodyGuardian Remote
Characteristic Monitoring System SmartCardia 7L Monitoring System
K192732 K240653 K243349
or notification of hemodynamically
unstable or life-threatening
arrhythmias or cardiac events
requiring urgent medical response. It
is not intended for monitoring
patients during cardiac rehabilitation
outside of healthcare facilities.
2. The SmartCardia 7L Platform is
contraindicated for use during
external defibrillation.
Boston Scientific Cardiac Diagnostic
Manufacturer Preventice Technologies, Inc. SmartCardia SA
Technologies, Inc.
QYX DSI
Product Code DSI
(Subsequent pro codes: DRG, DSI) QYX
Prescription/OTC Prescription Prescription Same
• BG Mini SL • SmartCardia 7L • BG Mini SL
Compatible ECG • BG Mini EL • BG Mini EL
Monitors • BG Heart
• BG One
Remote
Yes Yes Same
Monitoring
• Rechargeable Battery • SmartCardia 7L monitor
powered wearable ECG • SmartCardia Phone
monitors • SmartCardia Web Browser
Technological • Mobile device with application Same as primary predicate
Characteristics software apps
• Server software with AI
algorithm for ECG analysis
and reporting
• Outpatient Cardiac • OCT
Telemetry (OCT) • Event
Functional
• Cardiac Event Monitor • Holter Same as primary predicate
Modalities
(CEM)
• Holter
1. Holter Monitoring (up to 48 hours)
and Extended Holter Monitoring (>48
When using the rechargeable ECG hours and up to 14 days),
monitor, monitoring period 2. Event Monitoring (up to 48 hours,
durations are as follows: and >48 hours up to 14 days)
Monitoring Period Same as primary predicate
• OCT up to 35 days 3. Cardiac Outpatient Telemetry
• CEM up to 35 days (OCT) commonly called Mobile
• Holter up to 15 days Cardiac Telemetry (MCT) (>48 hours
up to 30 days when changing the 7L
Patch)
• Beat Detection • Electrocardiogram (ECG signal), • Beat Detection
• Rhythm Detection • R-R interval, • Rhythm Detection
ECG Analysis
• Measurements: Heart Rate, • Heart Rate • Measurements: Heart Rate,
Wave Intervals Wave Intervals, HRV, QTc
Page 4 of 6K243349
Predicate: BodyGuardian Remote Secondary Predicate Device for QYX Proposed: BodyGuardian Remote
Characteristic Monitoring System SmartCardia 7L Monitoring System
K192732 K240653 K243349
Bluetooth Bluetooth
System Cellular Network Cellular Network
Same as primary predicate
Communication Wi-Fi
USB
7. Summary of Performance Testing
CDx Tech performed safety risk management activities, design verification and design validation to
demonstrate that BodyGuardian Remote Monitoring System is substantially equivalence to the predicate
devices. The system conforms to user needs and intended use and tested in accordance with ANSI/AAMI
EC57.
Performance Testing:
• Biocompatibility
• Electromagnetic Compatibility
• Electrical Safety
• System Verification and Validation
• Software Verification and Validation
• Clinical Validations
• Cybersecurity Testing
7.1. Summary of Clinical Validation
Training and Validation Datasets
The training and validation data used for the BeatLogic algorithm consisted of real-world, randomly
selected ECG records that ensured representation across algorithm outputs, compatible ECG device
configurations and accessory types and demographic factors encompassing patient age, gender,
geographic location, and indication for monitoring. The validation dataset consisted of 48.6%
Female, 39.2% Male, 12.2% unknown gender and 50.1% < 65 years of age, 49.8% ≥65 years of age,
0.1% unknown age. No data from the training dataset was used for validation of the algorithm.
Performance Measurement
Performance of the algorithm was assessed by evaluating the Sensitivity and Positive Predictive
value (PPV) for key rhythms across different patient subgroups. Performance numbers follow the
EC57 standard for duration and episode measurements relative to ground truth annotations on real-
world ECG data.
The clinical validation results met all predefined acceptance criteria and demonstrated substantially
equivalent performance for BeatLogic. In addition, comprehensive analyses demonstrated
consistent arrhythmia detection performance across various subgroups including compatible ECG
device configurations and accessory types, gender, age, US geographic region, and indication for
monitoring.
Page 5 of 6K243349
8. Conclusion
Based on the intended use, fundamental technological characteristics, performance testing and clinical
validation, the proposed BodyGuardian Remote Monitoring System has been shown to be appropriate for
the intended use and is considered to be substantially equivalent to the predicate devices.
Page 6 of 6