November 25, 2025
FEops nv
Franky Dubois
QARA Manager
Technologiepark-Zwijnaarde 122
Gent, 9052
Belgium
Re: K250635
Trade/Device Name: FEops HEARTguide Simulation Application
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 870.1405
Regulation Name: Interventional Cardiovascular Implant Simulation Software Device
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QQI
Dated: October 17, 2025
Received: October 27, 2025
Dear Franky Dubois:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.02
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK250635 - Franky Dubois Page 2
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).K250635 - Franky Dubois Page 3
Sincerely,
Katherine N. Digitally signed by
Katherine N. Trivedi -S
Trivedi -S Date: 2025.11.25
14:58:05 -07'00'
Katherine Trivedi
Assistant Director
DHT2B: Division of Circulatory Support,
Structural, and Vascular Devices
OHT2: Office of Cardiovascular Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 06/30/2023
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K250635
Device Name
FEops HEARTguide™ Simulation Application
Indications for Use (Describe)
FEops HEARTguide™ Simulation Application is indicated for patient-specific simulation of transcatheter left atrial
appendage occlusion (LAAO) device implantation during procedural planning.
The software performs computer simulation to predict implant frame deformation to support the evaluation for LAAO
device size and placement.
FEops HEARTguide™ Simulation Application is intended to be used by qualified clinicians in conjunction with the
simulated device instructions for use, the patient’s clinical history, symptoms, and other preprocedural evaluations, as well
as the clinician’s professional judgment.
FEops HEARTguide™ Simulation Application is not intended to replace the simulated device instructions for use for
final LAAO device selection and placement.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (6/20) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(k) Summary
1.1 Submitter
Company Name: FEops nv
Establishment registration number: 3020703662
Address: Technologiepark-Zwijnaarde 122,
9052 Gent, Belgium
Phone number: +32492501951
Principal contact person: Franky Dubois
Principal contact e-mail address: franky.dubois@materialise.be
Additional contact person: Peter Mortier
Additional contact e-mail address: peter.mortier@materialise.be
Summary date: October 3, 2025
1.2 Device
Name & trade name: FEops HEARTguide™
Simulation Application
Classification name: Interventional Cardiovascular Implant
Simulation Software Device
1.3 Predicate Device
The predicate device to which substantial equivalence is claimed:
Item Description
Device Classification Name Interventional Cardiovascular Implant
Simulation Software Device
Premarket notification number K214066
Trade or proprietary or model name FEops HEARTguide
Original Applicant FEops nv
Regulation Number 870.1405
Decision date February 25, 2022
Classification product code QQI
Classification Panel Cardiovascular
FEops nv Page 1 of 51.4 Description and functioning of the device
FEops HEARTguide™ Simulation Application predicts implant frame deformation after
percutaneous LAAO device implantation through computer simulation. The predicted
deformation provides additional information during LAAO procedural planning.
The information provided by FEops HEARTguide™ Simulation Application is intended to be
used by qualified clinicians in conjunction with the simulated device instructions for use,
the patient’s clinical history, symptoms, and other preprocedural evaluations, as well as
the clinician’s professional judgment.
The customer (clinician) does not interact with the simulation software directly. The
simulations are performed by trained FEops case analysts through an established
workflow. Based on a patient-specific 3D model of the anatomy, a computational model of
the anatomy is generated and combined with a predefined computational model of the
device.
The simulation results are delivered to the customer through the medical device FEops
HEARTguide™ ALPACA (FEops - K223855) in the form of 3D model visualizations and a PDF
report. All results are accessible through a standard web browser. The customer cannot
modify the simulation results nor run additional simulations.
1.5 Intended Use
FEops HEARTguide™ Simulation Application is indicated for patient-specific simulation of
transcatheter left atrial appendage occlusion (LAAO) device implantation during
procedural planning.
The software performs computer simulation to predict implant frame deformation to
support the evaluation for LAAO device size and placement.
FEops HEARTguide™ Simulation Application is intended to be used by qualified clinicians in
conjunction with the simulated device instructions for use, the patient’s clinical history,
symptoms, and other preprocedural evaluations, as well as the clinician’s professional
judgment.
FEops HEARTguide™ Simulation Application is not intended to replace the simulated device
instructions for use for final LAAO device selection and placement.
FEops HEARTguide™ Simulation Application is prescription use only.
1.6 Technological Characteristics
The subject device is compared to the previous cleared FEops HEARTguide™. The change
on the subject device is the addition of the Boston Scientific Watchman FLX Pro device.
FEops nv Page 2 of 5Predicate device Subject Device Comparison
Name FEops HEARTguide™ FEops HEARTguide™ / /
FEops HEARTguide™
Simulation Application
510(k)/De Novo K214066 Subject Device /
Number
Manufacturer FEops nv FEops nv Same
Regulation 21 CFR 870.1405 21 CFR 870.1405 Same
Number
Device Interventional Interventional Same
Classification cardiovascular cardiovascular implant
Name implant simulation simulation software
software device device
Common name FEops HEARTguide™ FEops HEARTguide™ Same
Product Code QQI QQI Same
Product Class II II Same
Review Advisory Cardiovascular Cardiovascular Same
Panel
Intended FEops HEARTguide is FEops HEARTguide™ Adding the Boston
Use/Indications indicated for patient- Simulation Application Scientific Watchman
for Use specific simulation of is indicated for patient- FLX Pro 40mm
transcatheter left specific simulation of device
atrial appendage transcatheter left atrial
occlusion (LAAO) appendage occlusion
device implantation (LAAO) device
during procedural implantation during
planning. procedural planning.
The software performs The software performs
computer simulation computer simulation
to predict implant to predict implant
frame deformation to frame deformation to
support the evaluation support the evaluation
for LAAO device size for LAAO device size
and placement. and placement.
FEops HEARTguide is FEops HEARTguide™
intended to be used by Simulation Application
qualified clinicians in is intended to be used
conjunction with the by qualified clinicians
simulated device in conjunction with the
instructions-for-use, simulated device
the patient’s clinical instructions for use,
history, symptoms, the patient’s clinical
FEops nv Page 3 of 5and other history, symptoms, and
preprocedural other preprocedural
evaluations, as well as evaluations, as well as
the clinician’s the clinician’s
professional professional judgment.
judgment. FEops HEARTguide™
FEops HEARTguide is Simulation Application
not intended to is not intended to
replace the simulated replace the simulated
device’s instructions device instructions for
for use for final LAAO use for final LAAO
device selection and device selection and
placement. placement.
FEops HEARTguide is FEops HEARTguide™
prescription use only. Simulation Application
is prescription use
only.
Prescription Yes Yes Same
Use only
Software build 1.4.2 4.0.0 Releases in between
were documented
through LTF
Modelling Device specific Device specific Same
strategy computational model computational model
applied to patient- applied to patient-
specific geometry specific geometry
Software Simulation results Simulation results Same
architecture prepared by FEops prepared by FEops
Case Analysts and Case Analysts and
made available in Web made available in Web
based Viewer based Viewer
Simulated 1. Boston Scientific 1. Boston Scientific The subject device
devices WATCHMAN WATCHMAN includes 1 additional
(P130013) (P130013/S043) LAAO device. The
2. Boston Scientific 2. Boston Scientific WATCHMAN FLX and
WATCHMAN FLX WATCHMAN FLX FLX Pro have the
(P130013/S035) (P130013/S068) same device frame,
3. Abbott Amplatzer 3. Boston Scientific and the same
Amulet (P200049) WATCHMAN FLX Pro modelling strategy is
(P130013/S068) therefore used for
both device variants.
The subject device
FEops nv Page 4 of 54. Abbott Amplatzer includes a new
Amulet device model for FLX
(P200049/S004) Pro size 40 mm,
which is not
available for
WATCHMAN FLX.
The provided detailed comparison demonstrates the subject device is substantially
equivalent in intended use, design, operating principles, materials and performance
characteristics to the primary predicate device.
1.7 Performance Data
Clinical performance data was included in the 510(k)-submission demonstrating FEops
HEARTguide™ Simulation Application has been validated for its intended use. The applied
methods are similar to the methods applied for the design validation of the predicate
device and similar performance has been demonstrated.
1.8 Summary
The characteristics that determine the functionality and performance of FEops
HEARTguide™ Simulation Application, the subject device, are substantially equivalent to
the predicate device cleared under 510(k) K214066. The testing indicates that the subject
device is as safe, as effective, and performs as well as the predicate.
FEops nv Page 5 of 5