February 13, 2026
Measure Labs, Inc. (DBA PreemptiveAI, Inc.)
Matt Whitehill
Chief Technology Officer
2790 Mosside Blvd.
Monroeville, Pennsylvania 15146
Re: K250233
Trade/Device Name: PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 870.2920
Regulation Name: Telephone Electrocardiograph Transmitter And Receiver
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: DXH
Dated: February 10, 2026
Received: February 11, 2026
Dear Matt Whitehill:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK250233 - Matt Whitehill Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K250233 - Matt Whitehill Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
JENNIFER W. SHIH -S
Jennifer Kozen
Assistant Director
Division of Cardiac Electrophysiology,
Diagnostics, and Monitoring Devices
Office of Cardiovascular Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
Submission Number (if known)
K250233
Device Name
PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK
Indications for Use (Describe)
The PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK is intended for noninvasive spot measurement of pulse rate. The
measurement is based on video recording of the subject’s fingertip using a smartphone camera. It is
designed for use when the subject is still. It is indicated for individuals 18 years of age or older not
requiring critical care or continuous vital signs monitoring. It is not intended for use in patients with
known or suspected heart arrhythmias.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK
Traditional 510(k) Summary
510(k) Summary
Company Address: Measure Labs, Inc. (DBA PreemptiveAI, Inc.)
2801 Alaskan Way, Suite 302, Seattle, WA 98121-1134
Primary Contact Matt Whitehill
Person: Chief Technology Officer
Date Prepared: February 10, 2026
Device Name: PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK
Classification: 21 CFR 870.2920 Telephone electrocardiograph transmitter and
receiver
Product Code: DXH
Regulatory Class: II
Predicate Device: Fibricheck (K232804)
Indications for Use: The PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK is intended for noninvasive spot
measurement of pulse rate. The measurement is based on video
recording of the subject’s fingertip using a smartphone camera. It is
designed for use when the subject is still. It is indicated for
individuals 18 years of age or older not requiring critical care or
continuous vital signs monitoring. It is not intended for use in
patients with known or suspected heart arrhythmias.
Device Description: The PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK is a Software as a Medical Device
(SaMD) that utilizes a smartphone to noninvasively measure pulse
rate (PR). Designed for integration into third-party mobile
applications, the SDK operates on Android and iOS devices,
enabling spot-check pulse rate measurements.
The PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK captures a 30-second fingertip video
with the smartphone’s back camera. The software extracts a
photoplethysmography (PPG) waveform, partitions that 30-second
1 K250233PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK
Traditional 510(k) Summary
signal into overlapping 10-second windows, and applies an
autocorrelation-based signal quality check. A proprietary deep
learning algorithm then calculates pulse rate for every window that
passes the quality screen. The value shown to the user is the
average of all passing windows, and if every window fails the
screen, no rate is reported and a “Low Signal Quality” prompt is
displayed.
The SDK outputs a single pulse-rate value; it is not intended for
automated analysis or arrhythmia detection. The PreemptiveAI
Clinical SDK is not intended for use with alarm systems.
Technological The PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK uses photoplethysmography (PPG)
Characteristics technology to capture and analyze blood flow signals. The SDK
comprises a mobile SDK for integration into a 3rd-party app,
backend server, and locked deep learning model for pulse rate
prediction.
Substantial Equivalence Comparison Summary:
Subject Device Predicate Device
(K250233) (K232804)
Manufacturer PreemptiveAI Fibricheck
Device Name PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK Fibricheck
Indications for The PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK is Fibricheck is indicated for self-testing by
Use intended for noninvasive spot patients who have been diagnosed with,
measurement of pulse rate. The or are susceptible to developing, atrial
measurement is based on video recording fibrillation and who would like to monitor
of the subject’s fingertip using a and record their heart rhythms on an
smartphone camera. It is designed for use intermittent basis.
when the subject is still. It is indicated for
individuals 18 years of age or older not
requiring critical care or continuous vital
signs monitoring. It is not intended for use
in patients with known or suspected heart
arrhythmias.
Regulation 21 CFR 870.2920 Telephone 21 CFR 870.2920 Telephone
names and electrocardiograph transmitter and electrocardiograph transmitter and
numbers receiver. receiver.
Product codes Code: DXH Code: DXH
and
Class: II Class: II
classifications
2 K250233PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK
Traditional 510(k) Summary
User Adults 18 years or older not requiring Adults. Patients, who have been
Population critical care or continuous vital signs diagnosed with, or are susceptible to
monitoring. developing, atrial fibrillation.
Rx / OTC Rx Rx
Component Software Only Software Only
Measurement Spot Check Spot Check
Type
Measurement Fingertip Fingertip
Site
Single Patient Yes Yes
Use
Outputs Pulse Rate Pulse Rate
Irregular Heart Rhythm Notification
Device PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK uses FibriCheck is medical device software that
Description reflectance photoplethysmography (PPG) determines heart rhythm conditions, with
to estimate a user’s pulse rate through the a primary focus on the detection of Atrial
existing camera hardware on a Fibrillation. It makes use of optical
smartphone. Specifically, the SDK sensing from a mobile device to collect
analyzes optical signals captured from the photoplethysmogram data (PPG data).
fingertip, leveraging the phone’s camera The recordings can be shared optionally
and flash to detect changes in blood with a physician or monitoring service.
volume associated with each cardiac
cycle. The measured pulse rate is
displayed as a periodic spot check,
enabling users to track their pulse rate in
non-critical care environments.
Technology The PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK measures FibriCheck obtains waveform via Mobile
Characteristics pulse rate through an optical camera- Platform camera and displays signal in
based mechanism. It is intended to run on real time on the Mobile Platform device
Android and iOS mobile devices, with an arrhythmia index. Text display
capturing video of the fingertip to compute (green, amber, or blue) indicates heart
the blood volume signal, then utilizing a regularity or irregularity. All tests are
locked deep learning ML model to stored.
calculate pulse rate from this signal.
Measurement 30 seconds 1 minute
Window
Pulse Rate 50-125 bpm Unknown
Range
3 K250233PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK
Traditional 510(k) Summary
Pulse Rate +/- 3 bpm Unknown
Performance
(Error Level)
Non-Clinical Software testing:
● Verification and Validation - Verification and validation testing of the PreemptiveAI
Clinical SDK was conducted to ensure the software meets the design requirements and
intended use. This testing included a full characterization of software technical
parameters and algorithms.
● Hardware Compatibility - Testing was performed on 4 different smartphone models
during Clinical Testing, confirming the SDK functions appropriately across a range of
devices.
● Human Factors - A human factors study was conducted to evaluate potential risks
associated with usability. The testing included evaluation of the device’s response to
user errors and the user’s reaction to controls and mitigations.
● Bench Testing - Bench testing confirmed the device is accurate across its claimed 50–
125 bpm operational range and behaves in a predictable, fail-safe manner by
suppressing readings outside these boundaries. Further bench testing also
demonstrated appropriate algorithm behavior in the presence of heart arrhythmias.
● Cybersecurity Testing - Cybersecurity testing was conducted including vulnerability
analysis. Documentation was provided to show adequate cybersecurity measures have
been taken and will be monitored and updated throughout the device life cycle.
Summary of Clinical Testing:
A clinical study was conducted to evaluate the performance of the PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK
for noninvasive pulse rate measurement and to demonstrate its substantial equivalence to the
predicate device. The study enrolled 111 participants, aged 18 years and older, representing a
diverse demographic distribution across sex, age, race, and skin tone. Participants were
recruited from a general population, ensuring applicability to a broad user base.
The pulse rate obtained by the PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK was compared to the heart rate
obtained by the reference device. The Average Root Mean Square (ARMS) and its 95%
confidence interval were calculated. The hypothesis that the PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK can
measure pulse rate within ± 3 BPM ARMS is accepted. Sub-group accuracy was calculated to
ensure adequate performance. Based on the results of the study, the PreemptiveAI Clinical
SDK is effective at determining pulse rate in the intended use population.
Demographic characteristics of the clinical testing dataset
Description Number
Subjects Total 111
Age 18-29 21
30-39 29
40-49 17
4 K250233PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK
Traditional 510(k) Summary
50-59 16
60-69 11
70+ 17
Sex Male 78
Female 33
Race / Ethnicity (participants American Indian / Alaskan Native 4
could select more than 1 Hispanic / Latino 7
option) South Asian 10
East Asian 13
Black African/American 20
White 58
Other 4
Prefer not to answer 3
Skin Tone (Fitzpatrick scale) Type I and II 64
Type III and IV 28
Type V and VI 19
Arrhythmia No Arrhythmia 77
Arrhythmia 34
Atrial Fibrillation No Atrial Fibrillation 100
Atrial Fibrillation 11
Conclusion:
The PreemptiveAI Clinical SDK has been found to be substantially equivalent to the predicate
device with respect to technical characteristics, performance, and intended use. The information
provided within this premarket notification supports substantial equivalence to the predicate
device.
5 K250233