July 14, 2025
Peek Health, S.A.
Sara Silva
Chief Quality Officer (CQO)
Centro de Negócios Ideia Atlântico, Rua Padres Carmelitas
Braga, 4719-005
Portugal
Re: K251096
Trade/Device Name: PeekMed web
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH, LLZ
Dated: June 16, 2025
Received: June 16, 2025
Dear Sara Silva:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.00
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK251096 - Sara Silva Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. SeeK251096 - Sara Silva Page 3
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
for
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureP a g e 8 o f 3 3 P e e k M e d w e b
I
[ ] (2 1 C F R 8 0 1 S u b p a rt C ) O v e r-T h e -C o u n te r U s e a p p lic a b le ).
I
P le a s e s e le c t th e ty p e s o f u s e s (s e le c t o n e o r b o th , a s [ D ) P re s c rip tio n U s e (P a rt 2 1 C F R 8 0 1 S u b p a rt
p a tie n t p o p u la tio n . d is a b ility d ia g n o s e d p re v io u s ly . T h e re a re n o o th e r c o n s id e ra tio n s fo r th e in te n d e d
e n v iro n m e n t is a ro o m w ith a c o m p u te r. T h e p a tie n t ta rg e t g ro u p is a d u lt p a tie n ts w h o h a v e a n in ju ry o r
s p e c ia ltie s w ith in s u rg e ry a n d n o s p e c ific u s e e n v iro n m e n t is m a n d a to ry , w h e re a s th e ty p ic a l u s e
th e a d d itio n a l c a p a b ility o f p la n n in g th e 2 D o r 3 D e n v iro n m e n t. T h e s y s te m is d e s ig n e d fo r th e m e d ic a l
e ffic ie n tly p e rfo rm th e p re -o p e ra tiv e p la n n in g fo r s e v e ra l s u rg ic a l p ro c e d u re s , u s in g m e d ic a l im a g in g w ith
T h is m e d ic a l d e v ic e c o n s is ts o f a d e c is io n s u p p o rt to o l fo r q u a lifie d h e a lth c a re p ro fe s s io n a ls to q u ic k ly a n d
s u rg ic a l m a te ria ls s u p p lie d b y th e ir m a n u fa c tu re rs .
o f th e p la n n in g . T h e m u lti-p la tfo rm s y s te m w o rk s w ith a d a ta b a s e o f d ig ita l re p re s e n ta tio n s re la te d to
c lin ic a l a s s e s s m e n t is n e c e s s a ry fo r th e p ro p e r u s e o f th e s y s te m in th e re v is io n a n d a p p ro v a l o f th e o u tp u t
s e v e ra l s u rg ic a l p ro c e d u re s , b a s e d o n th e ir im p o rte d p a tie n ts ' im a g in g s tu d ie s . E x p e rie n c e in u s a g e a n d a
P e e k M e d w e b is a s y s te m d e s ig n e d to h e lp h e a lth c a re p ro fe s s io n a ls c a rry o u t p re -o p e ra tiv e p la n n in g fo r
[
P le a s e p ro v id e y o u r In d ic a tio n s fo r U s e b e lo w .
IP e e k M e d w e b
P le a s e p ro v id e th e d e v ic e tra d e n a m e (s ).
te x tb o x w ill b e le ft b la n k fo r o rig in a l a p p lic a tio n s /s u b m is s io n s .
I K 2 5 1 0 9 6
P le a s e ty p e in th e m a rk e tin g a p p lic a tio n /s u b m is s io n n u m b e r, if it is k n o w n . T h is
I
In d ic a t io n s f o r U s ePeek Health, S.A.
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Submission
PeekMed web
510(k) summary
K251096
This 510(k) summary of safety and effectiveness is being submitted in accordance with the requirements
of 21 CFR 807.92.
1. Submitter
Peek Health, S.A.
Centro de Negócios Ideia Atlântico
Rua Padres Carmelitas
4719-005 Braga
Portugal
Contact Person: Sara Silva
Chief Quality Officer (CQO)
Email: regulatory@peekmed.com
Office number: + 351 253 128 941
Date Summary Prepared: July 14, 2025
2. Device
2.1 PeekMed web
Trade Name: PeekMed web
Common or Usual Name: Medical image management and processing system
Classification Name: System, Image Processing, Radiological
(21 C.F.R. § 892.2050)
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH, LLZ
510(k) Summary - PeekMed web
Page 1Peek Health, S.A.
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Submission
PeekMed web
3. Legally Marketed Predicate Device
3.1 PeekMed web
510(k) Product Name Clearance Date
K250042 PeekMed web March 19, 2025
4. Device Description Summary
PeekMed web is a system designed to help healthcare professionals carry out pre-operative planning
for several surgical procedures, based on their imported patients’ imaging studies. Experience in
usage and a clinical assessment are necessary for the proper use of the system in the revision and
approval of the output of the planning.
The multi-platform system works with a database of digital representations related to surgical
materials supplied by their manufacturers.
As the PeekMed web is capable of representing medical images in a 2D or 3D environment,
performing relevant measurements on those images, and also capable of adding templates, it can
then provide a total overview of the surgery. Being software, it does not interact with any part of the
body of the user and/or patient.
5. Intended Use/Indications for Use
PeekMed web is a system designed to help healthcare professionals carry out pre-operative planning
for several surgical procedures, based on their imported patients’ imaging studies. Experience in
usage and a clinical assessment are necessary for the proper use of the system in the revision and
approval of the output of the planning.
The multi-platform system works with a database of digital representations related to surgical
materials supplied by their manufacturers.
This medical device consists of a decision support tool for qualified healthcare professionals to
quickly and efficiently perform the pre-operative planning for several surgical procedures, using
medical imaging with the additional capability of planning the 2D or 3D environment. The system is
designed for the medical specialties within surgery, and no specific use environment is mandatory,
whereas the typical use environment is a room with a computer. The patient target group is adult
patients who have an injury or disability diagnosed previously. There are no other considerations for
the intended patient population.
510(k) Summary - PeekMed web
Page 2Peek Health, S.A.
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Submission
PeekMed web
5.1. Contraindications
No contraindications specific to this device.
5.2 Indications for Use Comparison
There are NO differences between the indications for use of this device and its predicate.
6. Technological Comparison to Predicate
PeekMed web was compared to its respective predicate device in intended use, indications for use,
design, function, and technology, and it was demonstrated that they are substantially equivalent. Any
technological differences within this 510(k), between the subject device and the predicate device, do
not impact substantial equivalence, or safety and effectiveness.
The subject device and its predicate are both medical software that allow healthcare professionals to
perform orthopedic pre-surgical planning efficiently in the musculoskeletal system of adults in a
healthcare environment, therefore sharing the same intended use, intended user, and intended
patient population. To properly and fully use both devices, clinical judgment and experience are
mandatory.
Both devices have the same workflows, use requirements (e.g., internet connection, output
validation), and planning features (e.g., model representation, digital overlap of prosthetic material,
possible 2D and 3D environments). Both devices generate a final report of the planning, which
consists of the selected images with templates, measurements, and textual information describing
the patient and/or the surgical procedure to be performed.
510(k) Summary - PeekMed web
Page 3Peek Health, S.A.
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Submission
PeekMed web
Table 1: Summary of Predicate and Subject Device Characteristics to Demonstrate Substantial Equivalence
Characteristic PeekMed web PeekMed web Substantially Justification and rationale
Predicate device K250042 Subject device Equivalent?
Product Code QIH, LLZ QIH, LLZ Yes ---
Regulation
21 CFR 892.2050 21 CFR 892.2050 Yes ---
Number
Medical Image Management And Medical Image Management And
Regulation Name Yes ---
Processing System Processing System
PeekMed web is a system designed to PeekMed web is a system designed to
help healthcare professionals carry out help healthcare professionals carry out
pre-operative planning for several surgical pre-operative planning for several surgical
procedures, based on their imported procedures, based on their imported
patients’ imaging studies. Experience in patients’ imaging studies. Experience in
usage and a clinical assessment is usage and a clinical assessment is
necessary for the proper use of the necessary for the proper use of the system
system in the revision and approval of the in the revision and approval of the output
Intended output of the planning. The multi-platform of the planning. The multi-platform system
use/Indications for system works with a database of digital works with a database of digital Yes ---
use representations related to surgical representations related to surgical
materials supplied by their manufacturers. materials supplied by their manufacturers.
This medical device consists of a decision This medical device consists of a decision
support tool for qualified healthcare support tool for qualified healthcare
professionals to quickly and efficiently professionals to quickly and efficiently
perform the pre-operative planning for perform the pre-operative planning for
several surgical procedures, using several surgical procedures, using medical
medical imaging with the additional imaging with the additional capability of
510(k) Summary - PeekMed web
Page 4Peek Health, S.A.
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Submission
PeekMed web
Characteristic PeekMed web PeekMed web Substantially Justification and rationale
Predicate device K250042 Subject device Equivalent?
capability of planning the 2D or 3D planning the 2D or 3D environment. The
environment. The system is designed for system is designed for the medical
the medical specialties within surgery and specialties within surgery and no specific
no specific use environment is mandatory, use environment is mandatory, whereas
whereas the typical use environment is a the typical use environment is a room with
room with a computer. The patient target a computer. The patient target group is
group is adult patients who have an injury adult patients who have an injury or
or disability diagnosed previously. There disability diagnosed previously. There are
are no other considerations for the no other considerations for the intended
intended patient population. patient population.
No contraindications specific to this
Contraindications No contraindications specific to this device.Yes ---
device.
PeekMed web allows the surgeon to PeekMed web allows the surgeon to
perform orthopedic pre-surgical planning perform orthopedic pre-surgical planning
Clinical purpose Yes ---
efficiently in the musculoskeletal system efficiently in the musculoskeletal system
(e.g., Hip procedures, Knee procedures) (e.g., Hip procedures, Knee procedures)
PeekMed web allows the surgeon to
PeekMed web allows the surgeon to
perform the pre-surgical planning
perform the pre-surgical planning efficiently
efficiently in the following anatomical
in the following anatomical regions:
regions: Yes
Anatomical regions - Hip —
- Hip
- Knee
- Knee
- Upper limb
- Upper limb
- Foot
- Foot
Patient Population Adults Adults Yes ---
End users Healthcare Professionals Healthcare Professionals Yes ---
510(k) Summary - PeekMed web
Page 5Peek Health, S.A.
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Submission
PeekMed web
Characteristic PeekMed web PeekMed web Substantially Justification and rationale
Predicate device K250042 Subject device Equivalent?
Software is cloud-based (not installable) Software is cloud-based (not installable)
and can be displayed on any personal and can be displayed on any personal
Device availability Yes ---
device or workstation that can run on a device or workstation that can run on a
web browser web browser
Distributed system (cloud-based). This Distributed system (cloud-based). This
Software distributed system is a combination of distributed system is a combination of
Yes ---
Architecture software modules placed on servers that software modules placed on servers that
are able to communicate with each other. are able to communicate with each other.
The workflow is as follows: Import case The workflow is as follows: Import case
images, configure images, identify the images, configure images, identify the
Workflow Yes ---
case, pre-surgical planning, and export case, pre-surgical planning, and export the
the case. case.
Internet connection Required Required Yes ---
Receives medical images from various Receives medical images from various
Images source Yes ---
sources sources
The software processes data to provide The software processes data to provide an
Data processing an overlap and dimensioning of digital overlap and dimensioning of digital Yes ---
representations of the prosthetic material representations of the prosthetic material
Digital overlap of Allows the overlap of models and the Allows the overlap of models and the
Yes ---
templates intersection of the models intersection of the models
Interactive model
Yes Yes Yes ---
positioning
Interactive model
Yes Yes Yes ---
dimensioning
510(k) Summary - PeekMed web
Page 6Peek Health, S.A.
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Submission
PeekMed web
Characteristic PeekMed web PeekMed web Substantially Justification and rationale
Predicate device K250042 Subject device Equivalent?
Model rotation Yes Yes Yes ---
Support for digital
prosthetic
materials provided Yes Yes Yes ---
by the
manufacturers
Pre-surgical
Yes Yes Yes ---
planning
Type of
pre-surgical Automatic or Manual Automatic or Manual Yes ---
planning
Contact with the
No No Yes ---
patient
Control of life
No No Yes ---
supporting devices
Human
intervention for
Yes Yes Yes ---
image
interpretation
Ability to add
additional modules Yes Yes Yes ---
when available
Yes Yes The subject device includes a new ML
Automatic bone
- Hip (X-ray and CT scan) - Hip (X-ray and CT scan) Yes model variant for segmentation.
segmentation
- Knee (X-ray and CT scan) - Knee (X-ray, CT scan, and MRI) Both devices allow planning for the
510(k) Summary - PeekMed web
Page 7Peek Health, S.A.
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Submission
PeekMed web
Characteristic PeekMed web PeekMed web Substantially Justification and rationale
Predicate device K250042 Subject device Equivalent?
- Upper limb (CT scan) - Upper limb (CT scan) knee region with X-rays and CT scans,
- Foot (X-ray and CT scan) - Foot (X-ray and CT scan) but the subject device also allows with
MRI.
This does not constitute an intended
purpose update, nor does it raise
questions of safety and performance,
since the development, verification,
validation, and deployment processes
are the same for both devices.
Automatic or Manual Automatic or Manual
- Hip - Hip
Type of
- Knee - Knee Yes ---
landmarking
- Upper limb - Upper limb
- Foot - Foot
PeekMed web shares the same intended use, indications for use, end users, and has the patient population, overall technical and
functional capabilities, and therefore is substantially equivalent to the predicate device. The subject device has the same design and
function as the predicate device for the modes of operation and use. The subject device includes a new ML variant.
510(k) Summary - PeekMed web
Page 8Peek Health, S.A.
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Submission
PeekMed web
7. Performance Data
Nonclinical performance testing performed on the subject device, PeekMed web, supports substantial
equivalence to the predicate device. The following testing was performed on the subject device:
A. Verification activities were conducted to ensure that features were implemented following the
requirements and covering the acceptance criteria.
B. ML models incorporated into the PeekMed web were also developed, trained, tested, and
externally validated for their performance according to the internal procedures.
○ A dedicated validation dataset containing different data from the ML development
dataset was used. Specifically, the validation dataset was not a sampling of the
development dataset, has never been used for the algorithm training or for tuning the
algorithm, and leakage between development and validation data sets did not occur.
Training, development, testing and external validation data information
ML models were developed with datasets from multiple sites in a total of 2852 X-rays
datasets, 1903 CT scans, and 151 MRIs. We trained the ML models with 80% of the
datasets, developed with 10%, and tested with the remaining 10%. External validation
is performed by sample size with a total unique dataset, for Segmentation ML model:
402; Landmarking ML model: 367; Classification ML model: 347; and Detection ML
model: 198. This comprehensive dataset was designed to cover the intended use
population while ensuring a variety of data, maintaining diverse patient characteristics.
Subgroup definition (generalizability)
Datasets were divided according to the subgroups listed below:
● Demographics
○ Patient Sex
○ Patient Age
● Equipment and Protocols for Image Collection
○ Institution Name
○ Manufacturer
○ Manufacturer Model Name
510(k) Summary - PeekMed web
Page 9Peek Health, S.A.
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Submission
PeekMed web
Acceptance criteria
The acceptance criteria for each ML model are shown in the following table:
ML model Acceptance Criteria
Segmentation DICE is no less than 90%
HD-95 is no more than 8
STD DICE is between +/- 10%
Precision is more than 85%
Recall is more than 90%
Landmarking MRE is no more than 7mm
STD MRE is between +/- 5mm
Classification Accuracy is no less than 90%.
Precision is no less than 85%
Recall is no less than 90%
F1 score is no less than 90%
Detection MAP is no less than 90%.
Precision is no less than 85%
Recall is no less than 90%
Reference Standard (“Truthing” Process)
Comparison of the efficacy results of the Segmentation ML model using the
testing and external validation datasets against the predefined ground truth met
the acceptance criteria for ML model performance, demonstrating the
substantial equivalence of the subject device to its predicate.
Comparison of the efficacy results of the Landmarking ML model using the
testing and external validation datasets against the predefined ground truth met
the acceptance criteria for ML model performance, demonstrating the
substantial equivalence of the subject device to its predicate.
Comparison of the efficacy results of the Classification ML model using the
testing and external validation datasets against the predefined ground truth met
510(k) Summary - PeekMed web
Page 10Peek Health, S.A.
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Submission
PeekMed web
the acceptance criteria for ML model performance, demonstrating the
substantial equivalence of the subject device to its predicate.
Comparison of the efficacy results of the Detection ML model using the testing
and external validation datasets against the predefined ground truth met the
acceptance criteria for ML model performance, demonstrating the substantial
equivalence of the subject device to its predicate.
Independence of Training and External Validation Data
External validation datasets were collected independently of the development
data to prevent bias, ensuring the reliability of the results. For the external
validation, a fully independent dataset, labeled by a separate team, was
employed to provide an accurate assessment of the model's performance, over
the whole population and for each sub-group mentioned before, to prove that it
generalizes well to unseen, real-world data. All the testing and external
validation performed indicate acceptable performance of the ML models for
their intended population.
C. Validation tests were performed internally before the release to the market by qualified
personnel, in an environment simulating the real end-user environment. This validation
follows a pre-defined test script document, according to the tests defined in the test cases
management software.
Nonclinical performance testing allowed us to understand that there are no related problems in the
subject device. Furthermore, these tests will be repeated and updated when appropriate to ensure
that the software is always properly validated, making it possible to understand in which version the
problems arise and in which they are solved. Consequently, any problem that may appear in a given
PeekMed web version will be identified and can be solved in subsequent versions, as all steps are
traceable. All anatomical areas were tested, as well as other main areas of the software, such as the
planning final report, and saved planning, ML models, among others.
After these successful validation tests, it is possible to deem the subject device, PeekMed web, as
substantially equivalent to its predicate device.
510(k) Summary - PeekMed web
Page 11Peek Health, S.A.
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Submission
PeekMed web
9. Conclusion
Based on the information provided in this 510(k) submission, it was determined that the subject
device, PeekMed web, is substantially equivalent to the legally marketed predicate device
concerning indications for use, intended use, design, technology, and performance.
510(k) Summary - PeekMed web
Page 12