January 30, 2026
Precision Medical Ventures, Inc. dba RevealDx
℅ Michael Calhoun
Chief Technology Officer
1800 Westlake Ave. N., Ste 140
SEATTLE, WA 98109
Re: K251769
Trade/Device Name: RevealAI-Lung
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2060
Regulation Name: Radiological Computer-Assisted Diagnostic Software For Lesions Suspicious Of
Cancer
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: POK
Dated: June 10, 2025
Received: January 2, 2026
Dear Michael Calhoun:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.02
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK251769 - Michael Calhoun Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K251769 - Michael Calhoun Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Lu Jiang
Lu Jiang, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Diagnostic X-Ray Systems Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K251769
Device Name
RevealAI-Lung
Indications for Use (Describe)
RevealAI-Lung Software is a computer aided diagnostic (CADx) software application intended for the characterization of
incidentally-detected lung nodules on computed tomography (CT) scans. When a nodule is identified, the Software
automatically compares the nodule characteristics with a clinically established database of lung nodules and provides a
similarity score to assist clinicians’ assessment of patients’ cancer risk.
The mSI score is indicated for the evaluation of incidentally-detected pulmonary nodules of diameter 6-15mm in patients
aged 18 years or above. In cases where multiple abnormalities are present, the mSI score can be used to assess each
abnormality independently. Risk should be interpreted on an individual patient level and mSI is a relative risk score, not a
percentage cancer risk.
Note that mSI is not indicated for lung cancer screening. The validation data excluded CT images with missing slices.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(k) Summary
This 510(k) summary of safety and effectiveness information is submitted as part of the Pre-Market
Notification in accordance with the requirements of 21 CFR Part 807, Subpart E, Section 807.92.
Date prepared: January 28, 2026
Submitter organization: Precision Medical Ventures, Inc. dba RevealDx
Submitter address: 1800 Westlake Ave. N., Ste 104
Seattle, WA 98109
United States
Submitter telephone: +1 425.409.9579
Correspondence contact: Michael Calhoun, PhD
michael@reveal-dx.com
510(k) number: K251769
Device trade name: RevealAI-Lung
Device common name: Computer-aided diagnosis (CADx) software
Regulation name: Computer-Assisted Diagnostic Software For Lesions
Suspicious For Cancer
Regulatory class Class II
Regulation number 21 CFR 892.2060
Product code POK
1. Predicate Device
This section identifies the legally marketed device (predicate) to which Precision Medical Ventures
claims equivalence.
Trade name: Optellum™ Software
Manufacturer: Optellum Ltd.
510(k) number: K202300
Device common name: Computer-aided diagnosis (CADx) software
Regulation name: Computer-Assisted Diagnostic Software For
Lesions Suspicious For Cancer
Regulatory class Class II
Regulation number 21 CFR 892.2060
Product code POK
Page 12. Device description
2.1. Device characteristics
The RevealAI-Lung device is a post-processing software program that analyzes patient lung
computed tomography (CT) images and is designed to provide computer-aided diagnostic (CADx)
information about lung nodules to radiologists.
The user opens the patient’s lung CT image from a third-party acquisition device in an existing
medical device viewing system and scrolls through the image slices as in their normal workflow. The
user identifies a lung nodule on the CT image, and evaluates that nodule for cancer risk and the
potential need for follow-up using existing known risk factors, clinical management guidelines and
the Reveal-AI-Lung provided mSI score. In cases where multiple nodules are present,
RevealAI-Lung can be used to assess each nodule independently.
2.2. Use environment
The Software is used in hospitals and healthcare provider office settings.
2.3. Device features and usage
RevealAI-Lung compares features from the selected nodule to a reference image database derived
from National Lung Cancer Screening Trial (NLST) patient cases. Once the analysis is complete,
the software opens a separate integrated frame in the MIMPS viewer which displays analytics for
the selected nodule.
The software provides a similarity score (malignancy similarity index, or mSI) for each user-selected
nodule based on extracted image characteristics from the nodule region and the degree of similarity
between the user-selected nodule and known lung nodules from the NLST image database. The
mSI value is expressed as a numeric value from 0 to 1 based on a machine learning algorithm
trained on features calculated from nodules in the NLST database where diagnoses were
confirmed.
RevealAI-Lung provides comparative analysis for the mSI to nodules with known ground truth using
a histogram display (showing mSI score and the number of truthed cases in the NLST database
that are benign vs. malignant at a particular score level). A user experienced with the significance of
such data will be able to view and interpret this additional information during interpretation of lung
nodules.
The mSI score, in combination with other information, may be used in the characterization of
incidentally detected pulmonary nodules and may be used as one input to clinical decision making
when following published clinical guidelines.
The RevealAI-Lung user interface includes the mSI score and a histogram of case distributions for
benign and malignant lung nodules within the training dataset. Information on the intended use,
regulatory background information and manufacturer labeling is available within the interface.
Page 22.4. Materials of use
● RevealAI-Lung is a software only device.
2.5. Key performance characteristics
RevealAI-Lung is a software only device, so design, validation and verification were planned,
executed and documented according to FDA guidance, including the following:
1. FDA’s Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in
Medical Devices.
2. 21 CFR §892.2060 special controls.
3. FDA’s Guidance for Applying Human Factors and Usability Engineering to Medical Devices.
4. FDA’s Guidance for Content of Premarket Submissions for Management of Cybersecurity in
Medical Devices.
3. Intended use
This section describes RevealAI-Lung’s intended use, including a general description of the
diseases or conditions that the device will diagnose and of the patient population for which the
device is intended. It also compares RevealAI-Lung’s intended use to that of the predicate device.
3.1. Indications for Use statement
RevealAI-Lung Software is a computer aided diagnostic (CADx) software application intended for
the characterization of incidentally-detected lung nodules on computed tomography (CT) scans.
When a nodule is identified, the Software automatically compares the nodule characteristics with a
clinically established database of lung nodules and provides a similarity score to assist clinicians’
assessment of patients’ cancer risk.
The mSI score is indicated for the evaluation of incidentally-detected pulmonary nodules of
diameter 6-15mm in patients aged 18 years or above. In cases where multiple abnormalities are
present, the mSI score can be used to assess each abnormality independently. Risk should be
interpreted on an individual patient level and mSI is a relative risk score, not a percentage cancer
risk.
Note that mSI is not indicated for lung cancer screening. The validation data excluded CT images
with missing slices.
3.2. Intended patient population
The targeted population inclusion criteria are based on those where lung nodules are found on CT
scans in clinical practice, and where product validation has occurred, specifically where lung
nodules have been identified incidentally on CT.
3.3. Contraindications
● Not indicated for use on modalities other than lung CT images
● Not indicated for use on non-lung-nodule image locations
● Not indicated for unassisted reads (device output requires practitioner review)
Page 3● Not indicated for use where image quality or the presence of surgical or implanted artifacts
obscures the lung nodule
● Not indicated for use when CT images were acquired at a slice spacing exceeding 5mm
3.4. Intended users
RevealAI-Lung Software is designed to be used by radiologists who are licensed to make diagnostic
or other follow-up decisions using radiological imagery and/or radiology reports. The information
provided by RevealAI-Lung should only be used in conjunction with other clinically accepted
information to guide medical decision-making at the discretion of the clinician.
3.5. Comparison with predicate device
This subsection explains the similarities with and differences between RevealAI-Lung and the
predicate device in relation to intended use, including their respective Indications for Use, and
explains why the differences do not raise new types of questions related to device safety or
effectiveness.
3.5.1. Similarities
Both RevealAI-Lung and Optellum Software are computer aided diagnostic (CADx) software
devices used in the assessment of pulmonary nodules visible on computed tomography (CT) scans,
as a subset of the broader POK product code for “Computer-Assisted Diagnostic Software for
Lesions Suspicious for Cancer”.
Both RevealAI-Lung and Optellum Software are computer-aided diagnosis (CADx) software devices
used to assist clinicians in the assessment and characterization of abnormalities using image data.
Both devices extract image data from user-confirmed lung nodules to provide volumetric and
computer analysis based on morphological characteristics. Both devices use an artificial intelligence
algorithm to synthesize these imaging (or radiomic) features into a single value represented as a
score which is analyzed relative to scores generated on a database of known cases.
Optellum Software patient population is limited to patients presenting with between one and five
incidentally detected solid and/or semi-solid pulmonary nodules. RevealAI-Lung includes use on
these same types of nodules.
For both devices, device failure could lead to an absence of results, delay in scan interpretation, or
incorrect risk scores.
Similar to the RevealAI-Lung device, efficacy of Optellum Software is determined following the
same special controls for design, validation, verification and labeling; both use reader studies to
validate the impact on reader performance.
Both devices provide the user with information to aid in the interpretation of medical images and
both devices provide a machine learning based score derived from the patient’s image to aid the
reader in interpreting the image and making recommendations and patient decisions. The
RevealAI-Lung device provides an mSI score whereas the Optellum Software device provides an
Page 4LCP-CNN score. In both cases, the score is not a probability of malignancy but provides a
likelihood function, to be interpreted using a display of information derived from a database of
cases with known ground-truth.
In cases where multiple abnormalities are present, both devices can be used to assess each
abnormality independently.
Both devices provide a histogram of the score distribution over malignant and benign cases from
a database where the ground-truth is known. In both devices, the histogram is provided as a
reference to aid in the use of the score in image interpretation.
In both devices, the user makes the final determination and decision on patient management.
3.5.2. Differences
The following features of the Optellum Software are not included with RevealAI-Lung (note that
these are non-CADx functions):
● View CT images and reports
● Organize patient management workflow
● Track patients
● Record management decisions
● Organize nodule clinics
RevealAI-Lung is not indicated for use by pulmonologists, and does not have the above-described
features of the Optellum Software intended for other practitioners (e.g., clinicians, nurses).
RevealAI-Lung is only intended for use by radiologists.
RevealAI-Lung does not include screen-detected nodules in the intended use.
Compared to the predicate, RevealAI-Lung is intended for use with validation demonstrated for:
● Contrast-enhanced CT scans,
● Pure ground glass opacities, and,
● Nodules 6 - 15mm in diameter.
Patients with recent cancer diagnoses were not excluded from RevealAI-Lung validation data.
RevealAI-Lung does not display DICOM images. RevealAI-Lung does not provide information
regarding the patient demographics.
3.5.3. Comparison of Key Features of RevealAI-Lung and the Predicate Device
Clinical aspects of the RevealDx RevealAI-Lung device were assessed and compared to the Optellum
predicate device. The table below summarizes and compares each device.
Page 5Table 1 Predicate Comparison Chart - Clinical Aspects
Submitted Device Primary Predicate Device
RevealDx Optellum Ltd.
RevealAI-Lung Optellum™ Software
Clinical Aspect (This Submission) (K202300)
§892.2060 Radiological §892.2060 Radiological
computer-assisted diagnostic software computer-assisted diagnostic
for lesions suspicious of cancer. software for lesions suspicious of
cancer.
A radiological computer-assisted
diagnostic software for lesions A radiological computer-assisted
suspicious of cancer is an image diagnostic software for lesions
processing prescription device intended suspicious of cancer is an image
to aid in the characterization of lesions processing prescription device
as suspicious for cancer identified on intended to aid in the
acquired medical images such as characterization of lesions as
Intended Use magnetic resonance, mammography, suspicious for cancer identified on
radiography, or computed tomography. acquired medical images such as
The device characterizes lesions based magnetic resonance,
on features or information extracted from mammography, radiography, or
the images and provides information computed tomography. The device
about the lesion(s) to the user. characterizes lesions based on
Diagnostic and patient management features or information extracted
decisions are made by the clinical user. from the images and provides
information about the lesion(s) to
the user. Diagnostic and patient
management decisions are made
by the clinical user.
Indications for Use RevealAI-Lung Software is a computer Virtual Nodule Clinic (VNC) is a
aided diagnostic (CADx) software software device used in the
application intended for the tracking, assessment and
characterization of incidentally-detected characterization of incidentally
lung nodules on computed tomography detected pulmonary nodules.
(CT) scans. When a nodule is identified,
the Software automatically compares the VNC includes a computer-aided
nodule characteristics with a clinically diagnosis (CADx) function,
established database of lung nodules available only to pulmonologists
and provides a similarity score to assist and radiologists. This automatically
clinicians’ assessment of patients’ analyzes user-selected regions of
cancer risk. interest (ROI) within lung CT data
to provide volumetric and computer
The mSI score is indicated for the analysis based on morphological
evaluation of incidentally-detected characteristics. Using only imaging
pulmonary nodules of diameter 6-15mm features extracted from the CT
in patients aged 18 years or above. In image data, an artificial intelligence
cases where multiple abnormalities are algorithm calculates a single value,
present, the mSI score can be used to the LCP-CNN score, which is
assess each abnormality independently. displayed to the user. The
Risk should be interpreted on an LCP-CNN score is analyzed
individual patient level and mSI is a relative to LCP-CNN scores
generated on a database of cases
Page 6Submitted Device Primary Predicate Device
RevealDx Optellum Ltd.
RevealAI-Lung Optellum™ Software
Clinical Aspect (This Submission) (K202300)
relative risk score, not a percentage with known ground-truth using a
cancer risk. histogram display format. The
LCP-CNN score may be useful in
Note that mSI is not indicated for lung the characterization of pulmonary
cancer screening. The validation data nodules during image interpretation
excluded CT images with missing slices. and may be used as one input to
clinical decision making when
following published clinical
guidelines.
VNC’s LCP-CNN score is indicated
for the evaluation of incidentally
detected solid and semi-solid
pulmonary nodules of diameter
5-30mm in patients aged 35 years
or above. In cases where multiple
abnormalities are present, VNC’s
LCP-CNN score can be used to
assess each abnormality
independently.
Note that LCP-CNN is not
indicated for lung cancer screening
nor is it indicated for nodules of
pure ground glass opacity. In
addition, high contrast CT images
were not used in clinical validation
(as measured as >300HU median
attenuation in the aortic arch) and
the validation data also excluded
CT images with only calcified
nodules (since these are typically
considered to be benign), with
implants, motion artifacts, missing
slices, or cases with greater than 5
nodules. Finally, the validation data
excluded patients with history of
cancer of less than 5 years to
avoid the presence of metastatic
lesions.
Users other than radiologists and
pulmonologists, e.g. clinicians,
nurses, nurse practitioners and
navigators, may use VNC to view
CT images and reports, organize
patient management workflow,
track patients, record management
Page 7Submitted Device Primary Predicate Device
RevealDx Optellum Ltd.
RevealAI-Lung Optellum™ Software
Clinical Aspect (This Submission) (K202300)
decisions and organize nodule
clinics. For these users, the LCP-
CNN score is unavailable.
Intended Patient The targeted population inclusion criteria Optellum Software is a software
Population are based on those where lung nodules device used in the tracking,
are found on CT scans in clinical assessment, and characterization
practice, and where product validation of incidentally detected pulmonary
has occurred, specifically where lung nodules.
nodules have been identified incidentally
on CT.
Contraindications ● Not indicated for use on modalities ● The Optellum LCP Score is not
other than lung CT images indicated for pure
● Not indicated for use on Ground-Glass Opacities
non-lung-nodule image locations (GGO) or for calcified nodules.
● Not indicated for unassisted reads ● The Optellum LCP Score is not
(device output requires practitioner indicated for patients with a
review) history of cancer less than 5
● Not indicated for use where image years. The Optellum LCP
quality or the presence of surgical Score is not indicated for
or implanted artifacts obscures the nodules detected by lung
lung nodule cancer screening studies. The
● Not indicated for use when CT Optellum LCP Score is not
images were acquired at a slice indicated for patients with more
spacing exceeding 5mm than five pulmonary nodules.
● The Optellum LCP Score is not
indicated for patients with
thoracic implants that impact
the image appearance of the
nodule.
● The Optellum LCP Score is not
indicated for patients younger
than 35 years.
Intended Users RevealAI-Lung Software is designed to A nodule clinic is typically led by a
be used by radiologists who are licensed pulmonologist and includes a
to make diagnostic or other follow-up multi-disciplinary team of
decisions using radiological imagery radiologists, thoracic surgeon and
and/or radiology reports. The information sometimes pathologist and
provided by RevealAI-Lung should only oncologist.
be used in conjunction with other
clinically accepted information to guide
medical decision-making at the
discretion of the clinician.
Virtual Nodule Clinic is intended for
Intended Use The Software is used in hospitals and
use in hospitals to support these
Environment healthcare provider office settings.
clinics.
Page 8Technical characteristics for the RevealDx RevealAI-Lung device were assessed and compared to
the Optellum predicate device. The table below summarizes the assessment made.
Table 2 Predicate Comparison Chart - Technical Features
Submitted Device Primary Predicate Device
RevealDx Optellum Ltd.
RevealAI-Lung Optellum™ Software
Technical Features (This Submission) (K202300)
Regulation: 21 CFR 892.2060 Regulation: 21 CFR 892.2060
Product Code: POK Product Code: POK
Device Classification Name: Device Classification Name:
Regulatory Classification
Computer-Assisted Diagnostic Computer-Assisted Diagnostic
Software for Lesions Suspicious for Software for Lesions Suspicious for
Cancer Cancer
Assists in malignancy assessment Increases the accuracy of malignancy
Product Features
assessment
Reduces variations between Reduces variations between individual
individual physicians physicians
Improves clinical decision making Improves clinical decision making
Has been independently clinically Has been independently clinically
validated in multi-center studies validated in multi-center studies
Diagnostic Workflow Patient scan: The CT data and any Patient scan: The CT and any prior
prior scans are automatically scans are automatically uploaded into
uploaded into the RevealAI-Lung the Optellum Software.
software.
Identify nodule: Easily review any Identify nodule: Easily review any
available CT and mark the nodule(s) available CT and mark the nodule(s) of
of interest. interest.
RevealAI-Lung mSI score: Within Optellum Lung Cancer Prediction
seconds, RevealAI-Lung analyzes score: Within seconds, the Optellum
the CT image data to compute the Lung Cancer Prediction analyzes the
score. 3D image region around the nodule to
compute the score.
Optimal clinical decisions: With Optimal clinical decisions: With the
the support of the RevealAI-Lung support of the Optellum LCP score,
mSI score, make the optimal clinical make the optimal clinical management
management decision for the decision for the patient.
patient.
None. No patient contact None. No patient contact
Patient Contact Materials
Provides a computer-aided diagnosis
Provides a computer-aided (CADx) function to assist
diagnosis (CADx) function to assist pulmonologists and radiologists in the
Device Characteristics
radiologists who are familiar with assessment and characterization of
lung nodule management in the incidentally detected pulmonary
assessment and characterization of nodules using CT image data.
Page 9Submitted Device Primary Predicate Device
RevealDx Optellum Ltd.
RevealAI-Lung Optellum™ Software
Technical Features (This Submission) (K202300)
pulmonary nodules using CT image
data.
Provides a score using machine
Provides a score using machine learning referred to as LCP-CNN
learning referred to as mSI or algorithm, or Lung Cancer Prediction
malignancy similarity index. Convolutional Neural Network.
The RevealAI-Lung software is
deployed on a server on-premise at
the healthcare facility or within The LCP-CNN module is deployed on
cloud-based systems securely a GPU-equipped server on hospital
connected to the facility network. premises or in the cloud.
Connected to two other IT systems
in the hospital: a DICOM-compatible Connected to two other IT systems in
Picture Archiving and the hospital: a DICOM-compatible
Communication System (MIMPS) for Picture Archiving and Communication
accessing images and to the System (MIMPS) for accessing images
Radiology Information System (RIS) and to the Radiology Information
or reporting system for accessing System (RIS) or reporting system for
the clinical reports. accessing the clinical reports.
RevealAI-Lung is used in hospitals, Pulmonary nodule clinics are typically
imaging centers and other set up in hospitals, so that nodules can
radiologist reader settings where be followed up or clinical investigations
diagnostic evaluation of CT images can be prescribed to confirm the
occur. diagnosis associated with the
presence of pulmonary nodules. A
Use Environment nodule clinic is typically led by a
pulmonologist and includes a
multi-disciplinary team of radiologists,
thoracic surgeon and sometimes
pathologist and oncologist. Virtual
Nodule Clinic is intended for use in
hospitals to support these clinics.
The CADx function automatically The CADx function automatically
analyzes user-selected lung nodules analyzes user-selected regions of
from lung CT data. This function interest (ROI) from lung CT data. This
extracts image data from the nodule function extracts image data from the
to provide 3D analysis and computer ROI to provide 3D analysis and
analytics based on morphological computer analytics based on
characteristics. These imaging (or morphological characteristics. These
Computer-Aided radiomic) features are computed imaging (or radiomic) features are
Diagnosis solely from the image extract and computed solely from the image
then synthesized by an artificial extract and then synthesized by an
intelligence algorithm into a single artificial intelligence algorithm into a
value, the mSI score, which is single value, the LCP- CNN score,
displayed to the user. The score which is displayed to the user. The
displayed is an integer between 0 score displayed is an integer between
and 1 where 0 means very likely 1 and 10 where 1 means very likely
benign and 1 means very likely benign and 10 means very likely
Page 10Submitted Device Primary Predicate Device
RevealDx Optellum Ltd.
RevealAI-Lung Optellum™ Software
Technical Features (This Submission) (K202300)
malignant. The mSI score is not a malignant. The LCP-CNN score is not
probability of malignancy but is a probability of malignancy but is
intended to be analyzed relative to intended to be analyzed relative to
mSI scores generated on a LCP-CNN scores generated on a
database of cases with known database of cases with known
ground-truth, using a histogram ground-truth, using a histogram
display format. display format.
The mSI score, in combination with The LCP-CNN score, in combination
other information may be used in the with other information may be used in
characterization of pulmonary the characterization of incidentally
nodules and may be used as one detected pulmonary nodules and may
input to clinical decision making be used as one input to clinical
when following published clinical decision making when following
guidelines. published clinical guidelines.
Optellum Software is accessed via a
RevealAI-Lung is accessed via web browser on any PC or Apple
integration with a MIMPS system for workstation in the hospital. The
Principles of Operation radiologist use. Once generated, software is validated with web
results may be incorporated in browsers Google Chrome, Mozilla
reporting at the discretion of the Firefox, Microsoft Edge, Microsoft
radiologist. Internet Explorer and Apple Safari.
Input to RevealAI-Lung is a DICOM
CT image and a spatial coordinate CNN and input: The LCP-CNN
centered on a lung nodule. system is based on the Dense
Internally RevealAI-Lung creates 3D Convolutional Network, a widely used
views of the nodule location and type of deep learning CNN
Image Analysis whole CT slice, and extracts architecture that was designed for
Algorithm: thousands of machine vision computer vision tasks. LCP-CNN’s
Input features including layers of ensemble of convolutional neural
transformations into frequency and network models ends with a fully
other signal processing domains. connected binary classification layer
Machine learning relates these (malignant or benign). Input to
features to confirmed diagnoses of LCP-CNN is a 3-dimensional crop of a
input nodules. CT image, centered on a lung nodule.
Training dataset: RevealAI-Lung
Training dataset: The LCP-CNN
was trained on radiologist-identified
network was trained using solid and
lung nodules from 4-30mm in
semi-solid nodules of at least 5mm in
diameter, with data augmentation to
diameter. The training data consisted
vary the spatial coordinate. The
Image Analysis of 8% malignant nodules and 92%
median age of the subjects was 63
Algorithm: benign nodules and included both
(55-74), with 43% of the subjects
Training Dataset female. screening (95%) and incidentally
detected (5%) nodules. The median
age of the subjects was 62 (20-90)
Only nodules that were confidently and included a mix of US (95%) and
matched to a definitive diagnosis EU data (5%). The data included
were used for training, including females (38%) and males (62%). Only
Page 11Submitted Device Primary Predicate Device
RevealDx Optellum Ltd.
RevealAI-Lung Optellum™ Software
Technical Features (This Submission) (K202300)
following the patients for at least 5 nodules that were confidently matched
years. to a definitive diagnosis, as provided
with the data, were used for training.
RevealAI-Lung provides an mSI CNN output: LCP-CNN’s output is a
score for relative malignancy risk continuous value between 0 and 1;
with a scale of 0 to 1, with 0 this is mapped to an integer score
representing lowest risk and 1 between 1 and 10. This mapping was
highest risk. The score is shown with constructed by computing the raw LCP
contextual information to relate mSI score on a dataset consisting of
Image Analysis to the training population’s confirmed malignant (10%) and benign nodules
Algorithm: nodule diagnoses and risk levels (90%) but which were not used during
across the scale. the model training. The mapped
Output
integer score is shown to the user
alongside a plot detailing the cancer
prevalence in each of 10 bins for a
population with a 30% cancer
prevalence.
Standalone testing of RevealAI-Lung Standalone testing of the LCP-CNN
demonstrated that it performed as model demonstrated that it performed
Design Verification & expected in discriminating between as expected in discriminating between
Validation: Nonclinical benign and malignant nodules. benign and malignant nodules,
Performance Testing Technical validation is also
described for variation in nodule
coordinate and acquisition dose.
Concurrent use of RevealAI-Lung ● Concurrent use of the LCP-CNN
improved radiologists accuracy for feature in Optellum Virtual Nodule
the diagnosis of pulmonary nodules Clinic software to read CT exams
by an average of 18 points, from improves radiologists’ and
0.54 to 0.72 (p < 0.001) pulmonologists’ accuracy for the
Design Verification & Every radiologist improved their diagnosis of pulmonary nodules by
Validation: Clinical performance when using an average of 6.85 AUC points (p
Performance Testing RevealAI-Lung, and performance < .001) (from 81.9 to 88.8 AUC)
was consistent across patient, ● Every radiologist and
nodule and technical parameters. pulmonologist improved their
accuracy when using the Optellum
LCP- CNN feature to assist their
read.
4. Technological Characteristics
This section summarizes RevealAI-Lung’s technological characteristics and explains the similarities
and differences with those of the predicate device, and explains why the differences do not raise
new types of questions related to device safety or effectiveness.
Page 124.1. Principles of operation
Both devices are software only (software as a medical device). Both devices have a graphical user
interface. Both can import DICOM images from connected third party DICOM-compatible devices.
RevealAI-Lung interfaces with an existing MIMPS system (Medical Image Processing and
Management System) to provide the lung nodule characterization in a familiar, secure environment
characteristic of radiology diagnostic workflows.
While the predicate states that it is “accessed via a web browser on any PC or Apple workstation in
the hospital”, RevealAI-Lung is accessed only via connections to established MIMPS.
RevealAI-Lung is installed on server(s) that are common in a variety of healthcare settings, while
Optellum Software, as described, requires servers with specialty GPU capabilities. Both use
Linux-based operating systems with a high level of security, safety and functionality supporting
device installation and use.
4.2. Image analysis algorithm
Image analysis algorithms behind RevealAI-Lung’s CADx function, are described in detail in this
submission, according to 21 CFR §892.2060 special control 1(i), and summarized here:
Inputs: Input to RevealAI-Lung is a DICOM CT image and a spatial coordinate centered on a lung
nodule.
Internally RevealAI-Lung extracts thousands of machine vision features from the CT, and machine
learning techniques were used to relate these features to confirmed diagnoses within the reference
dataset.
Training dataset: RevealAI-Lung was trained on radiologist-identified lung nodules from 4-30mm in
diameter. The only augmentation to this dataset was to vary the spatial coordinate corresponding to
the nodule center. The median age of the subjects was 63 (55-74), with 43% of the subjects female.
Only nodules that were confidently matched to a definitive diagnosis were used for training,
including following the patients for at least 5 years.
Outputs: RevealAI-Lung provides an mSI score for relative malignancy risk with a scale of 0 to 1,
with 0 representing lowest risk and 1 highest risk. The score is shown with contextual information to
relate mSI to the training population’s confirmed nodule diagnoses and risk levels across the scale.
4.3. MIMPS connectivity
Integration with MIMPS allows the RevealAI-Lung mSI results and user interface described within to
be displayed in the typical radiology workflow when provided with a CT series and nodule
coordinate.
4.4. Reporting archive connectivity
The predicate’s software includes reporting capabilities not provided with RevealAI-Lung.
Reporting of mSI results is at the discretion of the reading radiologist using existing systems and
methods based on their reading environment.
Page 135. Nonclinical performance
This section includes discussion of the nonclinical tests used to establish substantial equivalence of
RevealAI-Lung to the predicate device.
5.1. Design, verification and validation
Like the predicate device, RevealAI-Lung is a software only device, so design, validation and
verification were planned, executed and documented according to the following, and summarized in
the rest of this subsection:
1. FDA’s Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in
Medical Devices. Based on this guidance, RevealAI-Lung was assessed to represent a
Moderate Level of Concern, the same as the predicate device.
2. 21 CFR §892.2060 special control 1(v) Appropriate software documentation.
As a software-only device, all requirements are software requirements. User requirements (those
relating directly to the intended users) and product requirements (e.g. environmental and regulatory
requirements) were identified without reference to design; they are design inputs.
Device hazard analysis and risk management, based on ISO 14971:2019 Application of Risk
Management to Medical Devices, was used to identify and control hazards associated with the
device. This consists of:
1. Device Characteristics Analysis, including intended use, reasonably foreseeable misuse,
identification of characteristics related to safety.
2. Risk analysis, including identification of hazards and estimation of the associated risks.
3. Risk control, including identification and analysis of risk control measures (design
specifications and architectural design), implementation and verification of risk control
measures; traceability; residual risk analysis to determine acceptability.
4. Risk review, including the overall residual risk compared to benefits of using the device.
Implementation of requirements is documented in detailed architectural design and design
specifications, including acceptance criteria.
5.2. Planned and pre-defined testing included:
1. Validation that RevealAI-Lung’s user and product requirements are met (acceptance
testing) – test results are included in this submission.
2. Verification of correct implementation of design specifications, including risk control
measures (system testing) – test results are included in this submission.
3. Verification of correct implementation of architectural and detailed software design (unit
and integration testing).
A series of traceability tables link enumerated requirements, risks, design specifications and tests.
Unresolved software anomalies known at the time of manufacture are listed in this submission.
No remaining risks affect or create any identified hazards, nor do they affect the device’s safety and
effectiveness.
Page 14In summary, RevealAI-Lung is successfully validated against user and product requirements and
successfully verified against design specifications. All risk control measures, including those related
to usability, are verified to be performing as designed.
5.3. Usability evaluation
Usability evaluations were performed as part of validation and verification, using FDA guidance
Applying Human Factors and Usability Engineering to Medical Devices. This evaluation confirmed
that RevealAI-Lung is safe and effective for the intended users, uses and use environments.
5.4. Cybersecurity
Cybersecurity activities were performed using FDA’s “Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality
System Considerations and Content of Premarket Submissions; Guidance for Industry and Food
and Drug Administration Staff” (Document issued on September 27, 2023)
The following activities were performed:
● Identification of assets, threats, and vulnerabilities
● For each threat and vulnerability, assessment of:
o the impact on device functionality and end users/patients
o the likelihood of a threat and of a vulnerability being exploited
o risk levels and suitable mitigation strategies
o residual risk and risk acceptance criteria.
● Planning activities for post-market surveillance of cybersecurity.
Identified cybersecurity risks, their control measures and verifications were managed along with
other device risks. RevealAI-Lung’s technical manual includes description of requirements and
activities related to cybersecurity at installation locations.
5.5. Validation testing on external populations
Validation of RevealAI-Lung was performed to determine device performance against the ground
truth using pre-established acceptance criteria. The device was subsequently tested on incidental
nodules from three additional populations (one each US, Canada, and the UK). Each of these
studies produced performance with an AUC > 0.8, and demonstrated follow-up decisions would be
improved compared to clinical guidelines. Together these studies validated performance on 675
patients with incidental lung nodules (276 with cancer).
All of these studies were performed on a population basis without exclusion criteria other than a
strict requirement for diagnostic certainty (either pathologic confirmation or two-years radiologic
monitoring to confirm benign nodules). They included broad patient demographics (age, sex, race/
ethnicity), scan characteristics (contrast, scan date, manufacturer), and nodule parameters
(size, lobe, opacity).
Page 156. Clinical performance
6.1. Summary
Like the predicate device, clinical performance of RevealAI-Lung’s CADx function was assessed
and documented according to 21 CFR §892.2060 special controls 1(ii) and 1(iii).
Clinical performance of the mSI feature in the RevealAI-Lung software was evaluated in a
fully-crossed, multiple-reader multiple-case (MRMC) study. Radiologists were asked to evaluate the
malignancy risk of incidental lung nodules identified on CT. These CT were displayed in a familiar
radiologist reading environment, and lung nodules were evaluated without RevealAI-Lung or with
concurrent use of RevealAI-Lung, alternating between these case types. Each case was read twice
separated by a 28-day washout period, with use of RevealAI-Lung randomized between the two
reads for each reader. The study focused on size-matched benign and malignant nodules with 10
readers, 108 cases.
This study demonstrated the safety and effectiveness of RevealAI-Lung. The size-matching
removed nodule size as a covariate from the analysis, allowing comparison of the challenge facing
radiologists when assessing similar nodules.
6.2. Clinical endpoints
6.2.1. Primary:
The primary endpoint compares the ability of the readers to discriminate between malignant and
benign pulmonary nodules from CT images only, with and without the aid of the mSI. For a given
reader, discrimination was measured using the area under the receiver operating characteristic
curve (AUC) across all cases. The effect size of the mSI intervention was measured as the
difference in AUC before and after consulting the malignancy score provided by the mSI (i.e.
unaided and aided reads). Statistics used the stringent random-reader, random-case paradigm to
account for potential variance with intended users and patients.
Sub-analyses:
● Patient sex, race, age
● Scan contrast, year, manufacturer
● Nodule size, lobe, attenuation (solid, non-solid)
● Radiologist training and experience levels
● Radiologist accuracy in indicating nodule center
6.2.2. Secondary:
Secondary endpoints were also evaluated including consistency of device performance and reader
interpretation, and sensitivity and specificity measures.
6.3. Test methods
6.3.1. Reader selection
Ten radiologists from a variety of experience levels and practice backgrounds participated in the
Page 16reader studies. All were board certified with an active medical license.
6.3.2. Reader training
Prior to performing study reads, readers were trained on RevealAI-Lung operating principles and
the clinical background (literature review), then asked to perform a small set of training cases
(n=18). After these reads, the reader was provided feedback based on the literature for malignancy
likelihood of nodules with that type/size. While malignancy likelihood estimation is specific to the
clinical evaluation, the training was typical for radiologists before clinical use of the device.
6.3.3. Study Workflow
Readers used a radiology viewer to load CT series containing the lung nodule. Readers were free
to evaluate the case as in practice for unassisted reads. For assisted reads, only the image data
and the mSI score were used to assess the study. For each of the cases, the reader clicked on the
nodule center, and was presented with the RevealAI-Lung output with a user-interface requesting
entry of the malignancy likelihood.
6.3.4. Datasets Used
CT Series were used from patients in routine practice where lung nodules had been noted
incidentally on the original radiology report. The data was sourced from 3 US sites and 1 in Canada,
and did not filter by reason for scan, the use of contrast material, or any other patient, clinical or
technical characteristics. This produced sample sets representing the intended use population.
For statistical purposes, the samples were enriched to have matching numbers of patients with
malignant vs. benign nodules. Sampling used an algorithm to produce size-paired nodules such that
radiologists would be ‘challenged’ in distinguishing nodules that would be treated similarly based on
this variable.
The following are the summary characteristics of the patients, scans and nodules used:
Page 17The above parameters were broadly similar in the control versus cancer groups. Note that Ethnicity
data was only available for US-based subjects (Not Applicable means not disclosed).
Nodule sizes were closely matched between malignant (mean: 9.2mm) and benign nodules
(9.1mm).
6.3.5. Clinical Study Results
The analysis for reader LOM, comparing results with/without the device using AUC are shown in
Figure 1.
Page 18Figure 1. AUC across all readers without the device (Unassisted, blue) or with the device (RevealAI-Lung,
green), with the ROC curve shown with 95% confidence intervals across readers (left), and the reader means
(right; with median and IQR (Tukey plot)).
Note that baseline AUC statistics confirm the challenging nature of this size-matched dataset with
low baseline radiologist performance (chance is 0.5 AUC).
Every reader improved when using the device (range 0.11 - 0.26):
AUC
Reader # without with ∆
1 0.639 0.773 0.134
2 0.437 0.695 0.258
3 0.502 0.714 0.212
4 0.612 0.717 0.106
5 0.601 0.736 0.136
6 0.477 0.709 0.232
7 0.553 0.697 0.143
8 0.549 0.682 0.134
9 0.491 0.719 0.229
10 0.517 0.745 0.228
Mean: 0.538 0.719 0.181
This difference was statistically significant (p < 0.0001; Dorfman-Berbaum-Metz ANOVA
random-reader random-case (RRRC) with jackknife (Wilcoxon)).
Sensitivity/Specificity
Page 19We pre-specified an example 5% likelihood of malignancy threshold for this sample. Use of
RevealAI-Lung increased sensitivity by 14 points (0.68 ± 0.039 to 0.82 ± 0.036) and specificity by
12 points (0.344 ± 0.041 to 0.467 ± 0.043).
Note: These values should not be interpreted as population statistics as they are dependent on the included
sample.
6.3.6. Summary of sub-analyses
Results were independent of radiologist experience, patient demographics (age, sex,
race/ethnicity), scan characteristics (contrast, scan date, manufacturer), and nodule parameters
(size, lobe, opacity). Each subgroup for all of the categories had an improved AUC when using the
device (range of improvement in subgroups: 0.12 - 0.30).
6.4. Conclusions
6.4.1. Nonclinical performance testing
RevealAI-Lung was successfully validated against user and product requirements and successfully
verified against design specifications. All risk control measures, including those related to usability,
were verified to be performing as designed.
Results across populations demonstrated consistent device performance and met requirements for
characterizing benign versus malignant lung nodules. These results were independent of patient
population, and differences in clinical care and scan technical characteristics.
6.4.2. Clinical performance testing
The described clinical performance studies validated:
● Usability: consistent device performance with radiologist use
● Generalizability: consistent device performance across populations, nodule & scan types
● Safety: Performance improvements consistent across readers
● Clinical benefit: Readers appropriately increase/decrease malignancy likelihood
6.4.3. Benefit-risk assessment
Risk management based on ISO 14971:2019-12 was performed in the design and development of
this device. These assessments have determined that based upon the residual risk acceptability
criteria and the residual risk documented, the overall residual risk and risk/benefit of RevealAI-Lung
is as low as possible and acceptable.
The studies summarized herein are part of the Clinical Evaluation Procedure that includes formal
assessment of the device risks and benefits. As described above, when used as intended by
radiologists on patients accurately representing the intended use population, the device has
significant clinical benefit.
Together, the reduction of all categories of risks documented in these procedures, and the clinical
benefits described herein, present an acceptable risk/benefit profile. The intended use, indications
for use, risk assessment, instructions, claims that are contained herein and supported by the clinical
study outcomes, all align with the safety and efficacy of the product.
Page 206.5. Substantial Equivalence Statement
RevealAI-Lung has the same or similar indications for use, intended use and technological
characteristics to the predicate device. The non-clinical and clinical performance described herein
demonstrate that ReveaAI-Lung performs at least as safely and effectively as the predicate device
in the context of its intended use and with the proposed labeling. RevealAI-Lung meets the
requirements for safety and effectiveness and does not introduce any new potential safety risks.
The information provided in this submission supports our claim that RevealAI-Lung is as safe, as
effective, and performs as well as or better than the legally marketed predicate device.
Page 21