January 22, 2026
Copan WASP S.r.l.
Chiara Congiu
Regulatory Affairs Manager
Via Achille Grandi, 32
Brescia, 25125
Italy
Re: K251511
Trade/Device Name: PhenoMATRIX
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 866.2190
Regulation Name: Automated Image Assessment System For Microbial Colonies On Solid Culture
Media
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: PPU, QQY
Dated: December 23, 2025
Received: December 23, 2025
Dear Chiara Congiu:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.02
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK251511 - Chiara Congiu Page 2
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801 and Part 809); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR
Part 803) for devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products
(see https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-
reporting-combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality
systems (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).K251511 - Chiara Congiu Page 3
Sincerely,
Ribhi Shawar -S
Ribhi Shawar, Ph.D. (ABMM)
Branch Chief, General Bacteriology and Antimicrobial
Susceptibility Branch
Division of Microbiology Devices
OHT7: Office of In Vitro Diagnostics
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K251511
Device Name
PhenoMATRIX
Indications for Use (Describe)
PhenoMATRIX is a WASPLab optional module intended for the automatic sorting of images of blood-based agar,
chocolate agar, MacConkey agar, and CHROMagar Orientation culture media plates according to classification
parameters based on Image Analysis Software results and clinical and demographic data.
Image Analysis Software performs semi-quantitative and/or qualitative analysis of culture media plates by detecting
microbial growth, estimating colony counts and differentiating isolates based on phenotypic colony characteristics.
The system determines how the images should be sorted based on image analysis results in addition to patient data
according to expert rules defined by the laboratory.
All images shall be evaluated by trained personnel for final assessment and result definition.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(k) Summary
1. SUBMITTER
Applicant Name: Copan WASP Srl
Via A. Grandi 32
25125 Brescia, Italy
+39 030 2687211
copan.regulatory@copangroup.com
Contact Person Chiara Congiu
Copan WASP Srl
Via A. Grandi 32
25125 Brescia, Italy
+39 338 6904942
copan.regulatory@copangroup.com
Establishment Registration Number: 3009288740
Date Prepared: May 15, 2025
2. DEVICE NAME
Proprietary Name PhenoMATRIX
Common/Usual Name PhenoMATRIX
Classification Name Automated image assessment system for microbial
colonies on solid culture media (21 CFR 866.2190)
Device Class II
Product Code PPU, QQY
Panel Microbiology3. LEGALLY MARKETED PREDICATE DEVICE
PREDICATE DEVICE
Device Name APAS Indipendence with Urine Analysis Module
510(K) Number K183640
PREDICATE/REFERENCE DEVICE
Device Name APAS Independence with IC Chromogenic MRSA
BD Analysis Module; APAS Independence with IC
Chromogenic MRSA TFS/S Analysis Module
510(K) Number K200839
4. DEVICE DESCRIPTION
The PhenoMATRIX is an in vitro diagnostic software for automated classification of images of
solid culture media plates streaked with microbiological samples derived from the human body.
The PhenoMATRIX comprises software modules intended for image analysis and automatic
classification of high-resolution digital images captured by WASPLab device for semi-quantitative
and qualitative assessment of microbial growth.
WLPostProcessing, its plugin and the Imaging Product SET perform microbial growth detection,
colony counts estimations and isolates differentiation basing on phenotypic colony characteristics.
The image analysis result is combined with LIS data (such as demographic data, clinical data and /
or sample data) according to customizable logic rules defined by the laboratory, for image
classification. The classification is used for image sorting into dedicated digital folders associated to
suggested results.
The PhenoMATRIX requires the WASPLab in order to operate. WASPLab is an in vitro diagnostic
device for handling, incubation, digital imaging and sorting of agar culture plates.
After PhenoMATRIX processing, the physical plates are left inside the WASPLab and images are
available for digital inspection by the trained microbiologist through the WASPLab User Interface.
The trained microbiologist shall assess the plate images in each digital classification folder. To each
digital image a suggested result is assigned according to rules previously defined by the laboratory.
The trained microbiologist reviews the plate images, folder by folder, and confirms (or changes) the
assigned folder and result. After that, the plates follow the workflow that has been defined by the
laboratory according to the assigned result.
The main functionalities of PhenoMATRIX are:
 Assignment of classification parameters to media plate images based on criteria defined by
the user (e.g., LIS information, Image Analysis). Result assignment according to the classification folder.
 Visualization of media plate images in the WASPLab User Interface for digital inspection.
All plate images shall be reviewed by trained microbiologist before any result definition.
5. INTENDED USE
PhenoMATRIX® is a WASPLab® optional module intended for the automatic sorting of images of
blood-based agar, chocolate agar, MacConkey agar, and CHROMagar Orientation culture media
plates according to classification parameters based on Image Analysis Software results and clinical
and demographic data.
Image Analysis Software performs semi-quantitative and/or qualitative analysis of culture media
plates by detecting microbial growth, estimating colony counts and differentiating isolates based on
phenotypic colony characteristics.
The system determines how the images should be sorted based on image analysis results in addition
to patient data according to expert rules defined by the laboratory.
All images shall be evaluated by trained personnel for final assessment and result definition.
6. COMPARISON TO PREDICATE
According to its intended use, PhenoMATRIX is intended to provide semi-quantitative and
qualitative analyses of culture media plates images suggesting growth presence and semi-
quantification, isolate colors and morphologies. The differences with the predicate device intended
uses consist in the specimen type and the review of the assessement by trained microbiologist:
while the predicate devices require reviews of physical plate assessed with growth presence,
PhenoMATRIX requires reviews of all digital images.
Such differences do not change, expand or limit the intended use of the Predicate Device and does
not affect the safety and effectiveness of the predicates. PhenoMATRIX and the Predicate Devices
are intended for culture media plates analysis to support diagnosis of microbial infections.
PhenoMATRIX technological characteristics, operational principle, interpretation of results and
quality control are similar to the ones of the Predicate Devices.
All products are equipped with an imaging module and an automated incubator for culture media
plates processing and images capturing. Image analyses software provides a semi-quantitative and
qualitative assessment of microbial colonies on solid culture media plates.Similarities
Similarities
Item New Device Primary Predicate Device Other
Device Name PhenoMATRIX® APAS Indipendence with APAS Independence with
(K number) Urine Analysis Module IC Chromogenic MRSA
(K183648) BD Analysis Module;
APAS Independence with
IC Chromogenic MRSA
TFS/S Analysis Module
(K200839)
Device Classification Class II (special controls) Class II (special controls) Class II (special controls)
Regulation Number 21 CFR 866.2190 Automated 21 CFR 866.2190 21 CFR 866.2190
image assessment system for Automated image Automated image
microbial colonies on solid assessment system for assessment system for
culture media. microbial colonies on solid microbial colonies on solid
culture media. culture media.
Product Code PPU: Microbial Colony Image PPU: Microbial Colony QQY: Culture Plate
Assessment System Image Assessment System Imaging System For
Qualitative Assessment Of
QQY: Culture Plate Imaging Resistant Organisms
System For Qualitative
Assessment Of Resistant
Organisms
Intended Use / Indications PhenoMATRIX is a WASPLab The APAS Independence is The APAS Independence is
for Use optional module intended for the an in vitro diagnostic an in vitro diagnostic
automatic sorting of images of system comprised of an system comprised of an
blood-based agar, chocolate agar, instrument and software instrument and software
MacConkey agar, and analysis module(s) for analysis module(s) for
CHROMagar Orientation culture specific indications that are specific indications that are
media plates according to used to automate imaging used to automate imaging
classification parameters based and interpretation of and interpretation of
on Image Analysis Software microbial colonies on plates microbial colonies on plates
results and clinical and of solid culture media. of solid culture media. The
demographic data. The APAS Independence is APAS Independence is an
Image Analysis Software an in vitro diagnostic in vitro diagnostic system
performs semi-quantitative system comprised of an comprised of an instrument
and/or qualitative analysis of instrument for automated for automated imaging of
culture media plates by detecting imaging of agar culture agar culture plates and a
microbial growth, estimating plates and a software software analysis module
colony counts and differentiating analysis module for the for the following use: 1. The
isolates based on phenotypic following use: The APAS APAS Independence, when
colony characteristics. Independence, when using using its IC MRSA
The system determines how the its urine analysis module, Chromogenic BD analysis
images should be sorted based on automates urine culture module, automates culture
image analysis results in addition plate imaging and plate imaging and
to patient data according to expert interpretation to detect the interpretation to detect the
rules defined by the laboratory. presence or absence of presence or absence of
All images shall be evaluated by microbial growth on sheep colonies with colors
trained personnel for final blood and MacConkey agar suggestive of methicillin-Similarities
Item New Device Primary Predicate Device Other
Device Name PhenoMATRIX® APAS Indipendence with APAS Independence with
(K number) Urine Analysis Module IC Chromogenic MRSA
(K183648) BD Analysis Module;
APAS Independence with
IC Chromogenic MRSA
TFS/S Analysis Module
(K200839)
assessment and result definition. culture plates that are resistant Staphylococcus
inoculated with a 1μL aureus (MRSA) growth on
sample volume. The APAS Beckton Dickson BBL
Independence, when using CHROMagar MRSA II agar
its urine analysis module, that has been inoculated
provides a semi- with anterior nares swabs
quantitative assessment of and incubated at 36°C ±
colony counts that are used 1°C for 24 hours. The
as an aid in the diagnosis of APAS Independence, when
urinary tract infection. All using its IC MRSA
urine culture plates that are Chromogenic BD analysis
identified as positive for module, provides an aid in
growth by the APAS routine screening for
Independence, when using colonization with MRSA. It
its urine analysis module, provides one of two
must be reviewed by a screening results:
trained microbiologist Presumptive MRSA or
Negative. All culture plates
that are identified as
Presumptive MRSA by the
APAS Independence, when
using the IC MRSA
Chromogenic BD analysis
module require review by a
trained microbiologist. 2.
The APAS Independence,
when using its IC MRSA
Chromogenic TFS/S
analysis module, automates
culture plate imaging and
interpretation to detect the
presence or absence of
colonies with colors
suggestive of methicillin-
resistant Staphylococcus
aureus (MRSA) growth on
Thermo-Fisher Spectra
MRSA agar that has been
inoculated with anterior
nares swabs and incubated
at 36°C ± 1°C for 24 hours.
The APAS Independence,
when using its IC MRSASimilarities
Item New Device Primary Predicate Device Other
Device Name PhenoMATRIX® APAS Indipendence with APAS Independence with
(K number) Urine Analysis Module IC Chromogenic MRSA
(K183648) BD Analysis Module;
APAS Independence with
IC Chromogenic MRSA
TFS/S Analysis Module
(K200839)
Chromogenic TFS/S
analysis module, provides
an aid in routine screening
for colonization with
MRSA. It provides one of
three screening results:
Presumptive MRSA,
Presumptive nonMRSA, or
Negative. All culture plates
that are identified as
Presumptive MRSA or
Presumptive non-MRSA by
the APAS Independence,
when using the IC MRSA
Chromogenic TFS/S
analysis module, require
review by a trained
microbiologist.
IFU target Microbial growth Microbial growth None
Sample type Urine Urine None
Imaging Station The WASPLab Imaging Station A fixed Charge Coupled A fixed Charge Coupled
is provided with a LineScan Device (CCD) camera, top Device (CCD) camera, top
camera that acquires the image and bottom Light Emitting and bottom Light Emitting
of the culture, two Light Diode (LED) illumination Diode (LED) illumination
Emitting Diode (LED) for the for the culture plates, and for the culture plates, and
illumination of culture plates image capture and a plate image capture and a plate
from the top and from the handling mechanism, all of handling mechanism, all of
bottom of the plates, an imaging which are housed in a light- which are housed in a light-
background that is a motorised sealed chassis. sealed chassis.
white panel used to acquire plate
pictures with white background
and plate handling mechanisms
to manage plates movements, lid
opening and lid closings
Instrument control and WASPLab® device is provided The APAS Controller PC The APAS Controller PC
management with: manage image capture, manage image capture,
- A PANEL PC Touch storage and analysis. storage and analysis.
Screen Monitor on the The Plate Controller PC The Plate Controller PC
Imaging Station controls movement of controls movement of
provided with the user culture plates between the culture plates between the
interface to allow the input carriers, imaging input carriers, imaging
user to manage theSimilarities
Item New Device Primary Predicate Device Other
Device Name PhenoMATRIX® APAS Indipendence with APAS Independence with
(K number) Urine Analysis Module IC Chromogenic MRSA
(K183648) BD Analysis Module;
APAS Independence with
IC Chromogenic MRSA
TFS/S Analysis Module
(K200839)
instrument and to check station and output carriers station and output carriers or
its status; or stacks. stacks.
- A Workstation to allow The Instrument Controller The Instrument Controller
the user to visualize the PC provides the user PC provides the user
acquired images; interface for operation of interface for operation of the
- A Control Unit where the APAS Independence APAS Independence and
all the software and coordinates the coordinates the functions of
managing the functions of the APAS and the APAS and Plate
instrument are loaded Plate Controller PCs Controller PCs
and running to allow
plates movements and
handling. Moreover, in
the Control Unit plates
images are stored and
can be evaluated by the
PhenoMATRIX.
Image Analysis Module PhenoMATRIX is installed on Analyses modules are Analyses modules are
Software the WASPLab Control Unit and installed on the APAS installed on the APAS
configurable for plate images Controller PC to provide Controller PC to provide the
assessment. the configuration and configuration and
instructions for image instructions for image
capture and analysis. capture and analysis.
LIS Interface Analyses results can be sent to Analyses results can be sent Analyses results can be sent
the LIS. Data related to the to the LIS. Data related to to the LIS. Data related to
sample are retrieved by LIS. the sample are retrieved by the sample are retrieved by
LIS. LIS.
Differences
Differences
Item New Device Primary Predicate Device Other
Device Name PhenoMATRIX® APAS Indipendence with APAS Independence with
(K number) Urine Analysis Module IC Chromogenic MRSA
(K183648) BD Analysis Module;
APAS Independence with
IC Chromogenic MRSA
TFS/S Analysis Module
(K200839)
IFU target Microbial growth None Presumptive MRSA
colonies
Sample type Microbiological samples Urine Anterior nares specimens
derived from the human bodyDifferences
Item New Device Primary Predicate Device Other
Device Name PhenoMATRIX® APAS Indipendence with APAS Independence with
(K number) Urine Analysis Module IC Chromogenic MRSA
(K183648) BD Analysis Module;
APAS Independence with
IC Chromogenic MRSA
TFS/S Analysis Module
(K200839)
in liquid or semi-liquid phase.
Result management All digital images shall be All plates assessed as All plates assessed as
reviewed by trained positive for growth shall be “Presumptive MRSA” or
microbiologist for final reviewed by trained “Presumptive non-MRSA”
assessment before result microbiologist. Negative for shall be reviewed by trained
definition and sending to the growth plates are microbiologist. Negative for
LIS. automatically managed by MRSA plates are
the device. automatically managed by
the device.
Instrumentation WASPLab APAS Indipendence APAS Indipendence
Calibration No calibration is required for Daily colour calibration is Daily colour calibration is
PhenoMATRIX software that required prior to use to be required prior to use to be
is installed on WASPLab performed by the user. performed by the user.
device that is calibrated by
Copan personnel during setup
during manufacturing process.
QC Control No quality control procedure Daily performed by the Daily performed by the
is required for operator by using Positive operator by using Positive
PhenoMATRIX product and Negative for Growth and Negative for Growth
because each single digital Plates Plates
image processed by
PhenoMATRIX is reviewed
by a trained microbiologist
who verifies that the
classification of the image is
accurate according to the set
rules.
A dedicated quality control
procedure shall be carried
out on WASPLab device to
ensure appropriate system
operation. The WASPLab
QC protocol is intended to
monitor for contamination
and to check the entire
process starting from
primary sample processing
to media culture plates’
imaging and incubation, to
ensure proper performance
by the whole system.7. NON CLINICAL PERFORMANCE DATA
Digital Image Evaluation:
Blood-based, Chocolate, MacConkey and CHROMagar Orientation culture media plates were streaked with
mixed cultures of organisms in different ratios.
After plate incubation, the interpretation of physical plates and digital plates images acquired by 3 WASPLab
instruments was performed by three operators with different levels of experience gained in microbiology
laboratory. All plates (digital and physical) were interpreted for microbial growth quantification and
phenotypical characteristics of isolates as morphology, color, consistency and presence of hemolysis.
The analysis of results showed high and reproducible agreement between plates interpretation on the digital
images and the direct interpretation of physical plates, independently from operator experience, plate type,
incubation time, WASPLab and test day.
In particular, the inspection of digital image allows for the correct identification of phenotypical characteristics
of colonies. The overall percent agreement between the image interpretation and the inspection of physical
plates was always >95%.
PhenoMATRIX Analytical Performance:
Reproducibility study
The study aimed to evaluate the reproducibility with which PhenoMATRIX interprets digital images. Different
culture media (blood-based, Chocolate, MacConkey and CHROMagar Orientation) were streaked with mixed
cultures of organisms in different ratios. Plate images were captured by three different WASPLab instruments
for the analysis by PhenoMATRIX imaging software modules, including detection of microbial growth,
quantification of microbial growth and/or the detection of colony morphology/color and assessment of growth
purity. All the IPs products were included in this evaluation to challenge all the capabilities. Test runs were
conducted in three distinct days. The reference result was given by the visual inspection of plate images by an
experienced technician.
Accuracy of microbial growth detection
This study was conducted using plates images captured by WASPLab, exhibiting presence or absence of
microbial growth from various species. Blood-based agars, differential agar and selective agar from multiple
manufacturers were included as culture media.
The detection of microbial growth by PhenoMATRIX image analysis modules was compared with the visual
reading by one operator performed on the same plate image. Growth detection accuracy was calculated as
agreement between software output and human interpretation.
All the image analysis modules achieved >99% positive percent agreement for growth detection. Negative
percentage agreement was >85% based on the specificity of the culture medium.
Accuracy of microbial growth quantitation
This study was conducted using plates images captured by WASPLab, exhibiting microbial growth of different
species at increasing microbial load. Blood-based agars, differential agar and selective agar from multiple
manufacturers were included as culture media.
Semiquantitative analysis by PhenoMATRIX image analysis modules was compared with the visual reading
performed on the same plate image by one operator.
All the image analysis modules obtained >80% agreement on the logarithmic classes of microbial load up to
≥106 CFU/mL.Analytical Specificity
Morphological detection on blood-based and MacConkey agar
The PhenoMATRIX ability to detect colony morphology associated to different clinically relevant organisms
was evaluated by testing images of blood-based and MacConkey agar culture plates captured by WASPLab,
selected with different pathogens at various microbial loads in pure and mixed cultures.
The morphologies detected by PhenoMATRIX were compared with the visual reading of the plate image
performed by a trained operator.
For most species (and groups of species), the positive percent agreement of detecting the colony morphology
for the species is >80%. Performance may vary on some species that have less specific morphology on the
tested culture media.
Tables below report the list of morphologies that can be detected by PhenoMATRIX.
Colony morphologies reported on blood-based agar plate. (*) The detection of swarming morphologies aims
to prevent the assessment of the microbial growth for the impossibility to accurately determine which species
grow under the swarming colonies
Morphology Description
Coliform like colonies, grey circular colonies with
Coliform morphologies
large dimension
Presence of swarming phenomenon related to
Swarming morphologies(*)
Proteus spp.
Flat colonies with irregular shape and metallic
Pseudomonas-like morphologies reflection, with different shapes and dimensions as
Pseudomonas species like
Yellowish circular colonies with medium size with
Staphylococcus aureus-like morphologies
different hemolytic patterns
White creamy circular colonies with medium size
Staphylococcus saprophyticus-like morphologies
without β-hemolysis
White/greyish circular colonies with small to
Other Staphylococcus spp.-like morphologies
medium size without β-hemolysis
Greyish circular colonies with small/medium size
Enterococcus spp.-like morphologies
with γ-hemolysis
Greyish-white round colonies with small medium
Streptococcus pyogenes-like morphologies size associated with presence of bright β-
hemolysis
Greyish-white round colonies with small/medium
Streptococcus agalactiae-like morphologies
size associated with presence of β-hemolysis
Grey round colonies with small/medium size with
Viridans morphologies halo indicative of α-hemolysis (it may include
Aerococcus spp.)Morphology Description
Cream round colonies that may display "feet" and
Candida spp. like morphologies
small size
Other gram-positive morphologies Colonies with large dimensions
Colonies with small to medium size with different
Other gram-negative morphologies
hemolytic pattern
Colony morphologies reported on MacConkey agar plate
Morphology Description
Non-mucoid lactose fermenter morphologies Pink/violet flat colonies
Transparent/ beige flat colonies with irregular
Pseudomonas morphologies
shape. May display green pigment
Non-fermenters Transparent/beige colonies
Morphological detection and semi-quantification on CHROMagar Orientation medium
The PhenoMATRIX ability to detect colony morphology associated to different clinically relevant organisms
associated with urinary tract infections was evaluated by testing images of CHROMagar Orientation plates
captured by WASPLab, selected with different pathogens at various microbial loads in pure and mixed
cultures.
The morphologies detected by PhenoMATRIX and their semi-quantification were compared with the visual
reading of the plate image performed by a trained operator.
For most species (and groups of species), the positive percent agreement of detecting the colony morphology
for the species is >80%. Performance may vary on some species that have less specific morphology on the
tested culture media. The agreement between the software’s and the operator’s morphology semi-
quantification was generally >80%, except when colonies exhibited gradient-like features in both color
intensity and morphology.
Tables below report the list of morphologies that can be detected by PhenoMATRIX.
Colony morphologies reported on CHROMagar™ Orientation medium
Morphology Description
Enterococcus spp. Blue-green small colonies
Light pink to rose, small opaque colonies with or
Staphylococcus saprophyticus
without halos
Light blue-green to light blue, pinpoint to small
Streptococcus agalactiae
colonies, with or without halos.
Dark rose to pink, transparent colonies, medium to
Escherichia coli large size, with or without halos in the
surrounding mediumMorphology Description
Klebsiella, Enterobacter, Serratia and Citrobacter
Medium-blue to dark blue colonies
group
Proteus spp., Morganella, Providencia group Pale to beige colonies surrounded by brown halos.
Pseudomonas spp. Cream to blue translucent colonies
Naturally-pigmented colonies White or transparent colonies
β-hemolysis detection
The PhenoMATRIX ability to detect β-hemolysis was evaluated by testing images of blood-based agar plates
captured by WASPLab, exhibiting presence or absence of β-hemolytic reaction.
The detection of the β-hemolysis by PhenoMATRIX was compared with the visual reading by one operator
performed on the same plate image. β-hemolysis detection accuracy was calculated as agreement between
software output and human interpretation.
>95% plates showing β-hemolysis were correctly detected.
8. CLINICAL PERFOMANCE DATA
The study was designed to demonstrate that PhenoMATRIX is able to classify plate images according to
custom interpretation rules which should reproduce, totally or partially, the culture interpretation procedures
of the microbiology laboratory. The classification rules combine proper analysis of microbial growth on culture
plate images with patient data through predefined logic functions and are built to sort plate images into folders
according to similarities in microbial growth pattens, facilitating image review and routing toward the
appropriate microbial workups.
A simulator was provided to three U.S. clinical laboratories. Each PhenoMATRIX simulator was configured
according to specific classification criteria agreed with the respective laboratories and was loaded with images
of culture plates, associated with demographic data when needed. Images were classified by PhenoMATRIX
and displayed to the laboratory microbiologist on the WASPLab interface for classification result confirmation
or modification.
Number of plate images and Types of samples analyzed at each clinical site
Site Number of plate images Sample Type
A 3856 Body Fluids
B 418 Clean-catch urine specimens
C Clean-catch urines and urines
1571 collected with catheter and
pediatric bag,
Total 5845
Per each site, according to sample types and classification rules, different agar media plates and
image analyses outcomes were analyzedType of agar plate and image analyses outcomes analyzed
Site Agar Media Plate Image analyses outcomes
A
 Microbial growth detection
- TSA+5% Sheep Blood
- Columbia CNA + 5% Sheep Blood  Microbial growth quantitation
- Chocolate agar  Growth purity assessment
- MacConkey agar
 Morphological detection
B
 Growth detection
TSA with 5% Sheep Blood // MacConkey Agar Plate
(biplate)
 Growth semi-quantification
C
 Growth detection
 Growth semi-quantification
CHROMagar Orientation//Trypticase Soy Agar +5%
 Growth purity
Sheep Blood (biplate)
 Morphological detection
 Beta-hemolysis detection
Each PhenoMATRIX configuration demonstrated high classification agreement with the culture plate
classification performed by the laboratory microbiologist through the digital review of plate images.
Summary of classification agreement at each clinical
Site Number of Samples in agreement % Agreement per sample classification
A 415/420 98.8%
B 406/418 97.1%
C 1474/1571 93.8%