February 6, 2026
SafeBeat Rx Inc.
Rachita Navara
Chief Executive Officer
813 D St., Suite 3
San Rafael, California 94901-2813
Re: K251218
Trade/Device Name: SafeBeat Rx App
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 870.1425
Regulation Name: Programmable Diagnostic Computer
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: DQK, DPS
Dated: December 30, 2025
Received: December 30, 2025
Dear Rachita Navara:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK251218 – Rachita Navara Page 2
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).K251218 – Rachita Navara Page 3
Sincerely,
JENNIFER W. SHIH -S
Jennifer Kozen
Assistant Director
Division of Cardiac Electrophysiology,
Diagnostics, and Monitoring Devices
Office of Cardiovascular Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureIndications for Use
Please type in the marketing application/submission number, if it is known. This
K251218 ?
textbox will be left blank for original applications/submissions.
Please provide the device trade name(s). ?
SafeBeat Rx App
Please provide your Indications for Use below. ?
The SafeBeat Rx App analyzes ECG data recorded in compatible formats. This ECG signal may originate
from a full 12-lead ECG or a reduced lead set ECG. The device provides ECG signal processing and
provisional analysis, including interval measurements (QT interval, QTc, ORS duration, heart rate, and RR
interval), along with visible display of ORS onset (Q-start), R-peak, and ORS offset (S-end). The SafeBeat
Rx App can electronically interface with, and perform analysis of, data transferred from other computer-
based ECG systems, such as an ECG management system. The SafeBeat Rx App does not provide real-
time ECG display, continuous monitoring, or alarm functions. The device is not for use in life-supporting or
sustaining systems or ECG monitor and alarm devices. The SafeBeat Rx App ECG analysis is intended for
adult patient populations (18 years and older).
SafeBeat Rx App provisional ECG analysis is not intended to be the sole means of diagnosis. The SafeBea
Rx App is not validated for use in lead I alone. The SafeBeat Rx App is intended to be used on an advisory
basis only by qualified healthcare personnel to evaluate provisional ECG data. ECG data should be
reviewed in conjunction with the patient's clinical history, symptoms, and/or other diagnostic tests, and the
professional clinical judgement of the qualified healthcare provider.
The SafeBeat Rx App can be used in a professional healthcare environment such as a hospital, clinic or
similarly equipped facility. The SafeBeat Rx App has an optional long term monitoring workflow intended for
monitoring and evaluating a patient's home acquired ECG. The software workflow that is intended for use in
the professional healthcare environment should not be used in the home environment to adjust QT
prolonQinQ medications as is contraindicated for applicable druQs.
Please select the types of uses (select one or both, as [gJ Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D)
D ?
applicable). Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
SafeBeat Rx App Page 8 of 122K251218
510(k) Summary
SafeBeat Rx Inc.
Suite 1530, 450 Sutter St.
San Francisco, CA 94108, US
Phone: 415-952-3354
Fax: 984-220-9323
Contact Person: Dr. Rachita Navara
February 6, 2026
Identification of the Device
Proprietary-Trade Name: SafeBeat Rx App
Device Class: Class II
Classification Name: Programmable diagnostic computer (21 CFR 870.1425 Product Code DQK),
Electrocardiograph (21 CFR 870.2340 Product Code DPS)
Common/Usual Name: ECG Analysis Program
Equivalent Legally Marketed Devices
CardioLogs Technologies, CardioLogs ECG Analysis Platform, K170568
Reference Devices
AliveCor, Inc., AliveCor QT Service, K212662
Description of the Device
The SafeBeat Rx App is a Software as a Medical Device (SaMD) that provides: (1) ML-based provisional
ECG interval measurements of third-party ECG signals (e.g., HR, RR-interval variability, QT/QTc interval
and QRS interval); and (2) optional non-device functions, including suggested antiarrhythmic drug (AAD)
dosing consistent with manufacturer drug label for amiodarone, dofetilide, flecainide, sotalol and IV
sotalol. The device analyzes ECG signals acquired by other ECG acquisition and storage devices. The
device is only intended for traditional “wet” electrode inputs. The SafeBeat app does not directly acquire
ECG data from patients. ECG data is obtained programmatically through an application programming
interface (API) with the ECG acquisition and storage device, or manually via data upload through a
secure web interface. The device is solely intended to analyze raw digital ECG data and does not allow
the analysis of ECG signals imported by images.
Provisional ECG analysis is performed by the device. The device includes both beat-level feature
identification and interval estimation. The beat-level parameters are:
● R-peak
● QRS onset
● ST onset
● T-wave offset
The interval estimation parameters:
● Heart rate
● RR interval variability
● QRS duration
● QT interval
● QT interval variability
● Heart rate corrected QT (e.g., QTcF)
● Heart rate corrected QT variability
1K251218
Provisional ECG interval measurements are displayed on a user interface for review and interpretation by
a qualified healthcare professional. The provisional ECG analysis can be viewed, edited, approved, or
rejected by the qualified healthcare professional via the user interface.
The SafeBeat App does not provide continuous cardiac monitoring. The SafeBeat App does not provide
rhythm interpretation or diagnosis cardiac arrhythmias (e.g. atrial fibrillation). The device does not include
automated rhythm analysis. The device is intended for adult patient populations.
Indications for Use
The SafeBeat Rx App analyzes ECG data recorded in compatible formats. This ECG signal may originate
from a full 12-lead ECG or a reduced lead set ECG. The device provides ECG signal processing and
provisional analysis, including interval measurements (QT interval, QTc, QRS duration, heart rate, and RR
interval), along with visible display of QRS onset (Q-start), R-peak, and QRS offset (S-end). The
SafeBeat Rx App can electronically interface with, and perform analysis of, data transferred from other
computer-based ECG systems, such as an ECG management system. The SafeBeat Rx App does not
provide real-time ECG display, continuous monitoring, or alarm functions. The device is not for use in
life-supporting or sustaining systems or ECG monitor and alarm devices. The SafeBeat Rx App ECG
analysis is intended for adult patient populations (18 years and older).
SafeBeat Rx App provisional ECG analysis is not intended to be the sole means of diagnosis. The
SafeBeat Rx App is not validated for use in lead I alone. The SafeBeat Rx App is intended to be used on
an advisory basis only by qualified healthcare personnel to evaluate provisional ECG data. ECG data
should be reviewed in conjunction with the patient’s clinical history, symptoms, and/or other diagnostic
tests, and the professional clinical judgement of the qualified healthcare provider.
The SafeBeat Rx App can be used in a professional healthcare environment such as a hospital, clinic or
similarly equipped facility. The SafeBeat Rx App has an optional long term monitoring workflow intended
for monitoring and evaluating a patient's home acquired ECG. The software workflow that is intended for
use in the professional healthcare environment should not be used in the home environment to adjust QT
prolonging medications as is contraindicated for applicable drugs.
Comparison of Technological Characteristics with the Predicate Device
The SafeBeat Rx App has the same overall technological characteristics as CardioLogs ECG Analysis
Platform, including providing measurements and analysis of ECG for physician review. There are minor
differences in the SafeBeat Rx App as compared to the predicate device. The SafeBeat Rx App identifies
beat-by-beat waveform features and interval measurements and it provides general functions for inputting
ECG data from a separate source, processing the ECG data, analyzing the ECG and labeling the
beat-by-beat annotations on the ECG. The SafeBeat Rx App displays the resulting analysis along with
the original ECG and provides tools for the physician to adjust or confirm results and also provides a
report to the physician which is similar to the predicate device. The SafeBeat Rx App does not alter the
ECG acquisition device.
Because the Subject device uses a machine learning–based approach for QT interval measurement that
is not present in the Predicate device, a Reference device was included in the comparison. The
Reference device similarly utilizes a machine learning–based algorithm to compute the QT interval. The
inclusion of this Reference device provides an appropriate technological benchmark for evaluating the
use of machine learning in QT interval measurement.
This comparison demonstrates that the use of machine learning for QT interval calculation is well
established in FDA-cleared devices and does not introduce new questions of safety or effectiveness. Any
2K251218
technological differences between the Predicate, Reference, and Subject devices have been evaluated
through hazard analysis and mitigated through appropriate risk controls and verification testing. Based on
this assessment, these differences do not impact the substantial equivalence of the Subject device.
Tables 1 and 2 and the accompanying discussion below provide a detailed comparison of the intended
use and technological characteristics of the SafeBeat Rx App and the predicate device.
As demonstrated below, the intended use of the SafeBeat Rx App and the predicate device are the same.
There are minor differences in technological characteristics, but the testing and validation activities
described in this 510(k) submission show that the minor technological differences do not raise new or
different questions of safety and effectiveness and that the SafeBeat Rx App is at least as safe and
effective as the predicate device.
T 1 C U S , A C QT ,
ABLE OMPARISON OF SE OF THE AFEBEATRX APP LIVE OR SERVICE AND
CARDIOLOGS ECG ANALYSIS PLATFORM
Predicate Device Reference Device New Device
[CardioLogs Technologies, [AliveCor Inc.] [SafeBeat Rx]
CardioLogs ECG Analysis
Platform] [AliveCor QT Service] [SafeBeat Rx
App]
(K170568) (K212662)
Manufact./ CardioLogs Technologies AliveCor SafeBeat Rx
Name
510(k) K170568 K212662 K251218
Number
Product DQK/DPS DQK/DPS DQK/DPS
code
Classificatio 21 CFR §870.1425 21 CFR §870.1425 21 CFR §870.1425
n
Regulation
3K251218
Indications The CardioLogs ECG AliveCor QT Service
for Use Analysis Platform is analyses 30 seconds of a The SafeBeat Rx
intended for use by qualified previously acquired App analyzes
healthcare professionals for electrocardiogram (ECG) ECG data
the assessment of from AliveCor designed recorded in
arrhythmias using ECG data 6-Lead ambulatory ECG compatible
in subjects over 18 years of devices analyzed as normal formats. This ECG
age. The product supports sinus rhythm for QT interval signal may
downloading and analyzing measurements. originate from a
data recorded in compatible full 12-lead ECG
formats from any device or a reduced lead
used for the arrhythmia set ECG. The
diagnostics such as Holter, AliveCor QT Service is device provides
event recorder, 12 lead intended for use in a ECG signal
ambulatory ECG devices, or professional medical processing and
other similar devices when facility, such as a hospital, provisional
assessment of the rhythm is clinic, or doctor’s office by analysis, including
necessary. The Cardiologs a qualified health care interval
ECG Analysis Platform can professional, including measurements (QT
also be electronically trained ECG technician. interval, QTc,
interfaced, and perform QRS duration,
analysis with data heart rate, and RR
transferred from other interval), along
AliveCor QT Service is
computer based ECG with visible
indicated for use on adult
systems, such as an ECG display of QRS
patients (older than 18
management system. onset (Q-start),
years). The device has not
R-peak, and QRS
been tested for and is not
The Cardiologs ECG
offset (S-end).
intended for pediatric use.
Analysis Platform provides
The SafeBeat Rx
The service is not intended
ECG signal processing and
App can
for use in life supporting, or
analysis, QRS and
electronically
sustaining systems, or
Ventricular Ectopic Beat
interface with, and
continuous ECG monitors,
detection, QRS feature
perform analysis
or cardiac alarm devices, or
extraction, interval
of, data transferred
OTC use only devices.
measurement, heart rate
from other
measurement, and rhythm
computer-based
analysis. The Cardiologs
ECG systems,
ECG Analysis Platform is
such as an ECG
not for use in life supporting
management
or sustaining systems or
system. The
ECG monitor and Alarm
SafeBeat Rx App
devices.
does not provide
real-time ECG
display,
continuous
monitoring, or
alarm functions.
The device is not
for use in
life-supporting or
sustaining systems
or ECG monitor
and alarm devices.
The SafeBeat Rx
App ECG analysis
is intended for
4K251218
The product can be adult patient
integrated into computerized populations (18
ECG monitoring devices. In years and older).
this case, the medical device
manufacturer will identify SafeBeat Rx App
the indication for use provisional ECG
depending on the application analysis is not
of their device. Cardiologs intended to be the
ECG Analysis Platform sole means of
interpretation results are not diagnosis. The
intended to be the sole SafeBeat Rx App
means of diagnosis. It is is not validated for
offered to physicians and use in lead I alone.
clinicians on an advisory The SafeBeat Rx
basis only in conjunction App is intended to
with the physician’s be used on an
knowledge of ECG patterns, advisory basis
patient background, clinical only by qualified
history, symptoms, and other healthcare
diagnostic information. personnel to
evaluate
provisional ECG
data. ECG data
should be
reviewed in
conjunction with
the patient’s
clinical history,
symptoms, and/or
other diagnostic
tests, and the
professional
clinical judgement
of the qualified
healthcare
provider.
5K251218
Predicate Device Reference Device New Device
[CardioLogs Technologies, [AliveCor Inc.] [SafeBeat Rx]
CardioLogs ECG Analysis
Platform] [AliveCor QT Service] [SafeBeat Rx
App]
(K170568) (K212662)
The SafeBeat Rx
App can be used
in a professional
healthcare
environment such
as a hospital,
clinic or similarly
equipped facility.
The SafeBeat Rx
App has an
optional long term
monitoring
workflow intended
for monitoring and
evaluating a
patient's home
acquired ECG.
The software
workflow that is
intended for use in
the professional
healthcare
environment
should not be used
in the home
environment to
adjust QT
prolonging
medications as is
contraindicated for
applicable drugs.
Intended The CardioLogs ECG The AliveCor QT Service is Same
Use Analysis Platform is intended intended for use in a
for use by qualified professional medical
healthcare professionals for facility, such as a hospital,
the assessment of clinic, or doctor’s office by
arrhythmias using ECG data a qualified health care
in subjects over 18 years of professional, including
age. trained ECG technician. The
AliveCor QT Service is
indicated for use on adult
patients (older than 18
years).
6K251218
Predicate Device Reference Device New Device
[CardioLogs Technologies, [AliveCor Inc.] [SafeBeat Rx]
CardioLogs ECG Analysis
Platform] [AliveCor QT Service] [SafeBeat Rx
App]
(K170568) (K212662)
Environmen Professional Healthcare Professional Healthcare Professional
t of Use Facility facility Healthcare facility
Home
Environment
Intended Qualified healthcare Same Same
User professionals
Intended Adult population of 18 years Adult population of 18 years ECG Analysis:
Patient of age of age Adult population
Population of 18 years of age
Dose
recommendation:
Patients with
arrhythmias
Target Heart Heart Same
Anatomic
Area
7K251218
TABLE 2 COMPARISON OF TECHNOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE
SAFEBEAT RX APP, ALIVECOR QT SERVICE, AND CARDIOLOGS ECG
ANALYSIS PLATFORM
Predicate Device Reference Device New Device
[CardioLogs [AliveCor Inc.] SafeBeat Rx
Technologies,
CardioLogs ECG [AliveCor QT Service] SafeBeat Rx App
Analysis Platform]
(K212662)
(K170568)
Principle of - ECG signal - QT Interval - ECG signal
Operation processing and measurement processing and
analysis analysis
- Heart rate
- QRS detection measurement - QRS feature
extraction
- Interval -
measurement - Interval
measurement
- Heart rate (QTc)
measurement
- Heart rate
- measurement
Filtering - Noise Filtering - N/A - Noise Filtering
Measurements - Tachycardia - N/A - N/A
- Bradycardia
- Atrial fibrillation
- Atrial
Fibrillation
- Ventricular
Tachycardia
- Premature
Supraventricular
Complexes
- Ventricular
Couplets
- Ventricular
Bigeminy
- Ventricular
Trigeminy
- Sinus rhythms
8K251218
Predicate Device Reference Device New Device
[CardioLogs [AliveCor Inc.] SafeBeat Rx
Technologies,
CardioLogs ECG [AliveCor QT Service] SafeBeat Rx App
Analysis Platform]
(K212662)
(K170568)
In-Patient - 12 lead ECG - 6 lead ambulatory - 12 lead ECG
Setting standard standard
bandwidth bandwidth
electrode electrode (GE
Medical Systems)
Out-patient - Compatible - Compatible - Compatible
Setting reduced lead set reduced lead set reduced lead set
ECG. ECG consisting of ECG
at least Lead I or
Lead II.
User Interface ● Interface which ● N/A ● Interface which
provides tools to provides tools to
measure, analyze and measure, analyze
review numerous and review
ECGs. numerous ECGs.
Technical ● An automated ● Adaptive filtering, ● An automated
attributes proprietary ECG signal processing, proprietary ECG
interpretation support deep neural interpretation
algorithm which networks support algorithm
measures and which measures
analyzes ECGs to and analyzes
provide supportive
ECGs to provide
information for ECG
supportive
diagnosis, written in
information for
Python language
ECG analysis,
written in Python
language
9K251218
Predicate Device Reference Device New Device
[CardioLogs [AliveCor Inc.] SafeBeat Rx
Technologies,
CardioLogs ECG [AliveCor QT Service] SafeBeat Rx App
Analysis Platform]
(K212662)
(K170568)
● In cases where the ● N/A ● In cases where the
third party filtered third party filtered
data is not available: data is not
The device . available: The
baseline is
calculated and the
signal around it is
normalized.
Signal processing
algorithms are
used to measure
the QT and RR
intervals, which
are used to
calculate the QRS
and QTc intervals
of each beat.
N/A N/A N/A
Shelf life The device is a The device is a cloud-based No change
cloud-based software as a software as a medical
medical device. device.
Non-clinical Testing
Testing has been performance in compliance with the following recognized consensus standards:
● AAMI ANSI IEC 62304 - Medical device software - Software life-cycle processes
● IEC 60601-2-25 Medical electrical equipment - Part 2-25: Particular requirements for the safety of
electrocardiographs
● IEC 60601-2-47 - Medical Electrical Equipment - Part 2-47: Particular Requirements For The
Basic Safety And Essential Performance Of Ambulatory Electrocardiographic Systems
● IEC 62366-1 - Medical devices - Application of usability engineering to medical devices
Testing described in the 510(k) consisted of verification of all design input requirements and product
specifications. Integration testing was done which tested the system from input to output. Software
validation testing was completed successfully and demonstrated the device met customer requirements.
No anomalies were detected during design verification and validation testing.
Human Factors usability testing met all requirements for all use groups.
Clinical Testing
The training dataset consisted of broad distribution of cardiac rhythms and less common supraventricular
rhythms. QRS and QTc morphology were diverse. The dataset ensured generalization across age, sex,
rhythm classes and ECG waveform variations.
10K251218
The software validation included:
● QTc Measurement Validation (SafeBeat Proprietary Dataset): Comparing software-generated QTc
measurements to expert cardiologist annotations
● QRS Measurement Validation (SafeBeat Proprietary Dataset): Comparing QRS measurements to
expert cardiologist annotations
● HR and R-R Peak Measurement Validation (SafeBeat Proprietary Dataset): Comparing heart rate
(HR) and R-R peak measurements to expert cardiologist annotations
● Edge Case Testing: Assessing ECGs with morphological changes in T-waves, U-waves, and T-U
wave fusion, and QT prolongation cases.
● QTc and QRS mean difference using the Common Standards for Electrocardiography (CSE)
Dataset (n=100) ECGs in accordance with IEC 60601-2-25.
● Arrhythmia Detection Validation: Evaluating beat-segment detection/QRS sensitivity and positive
predictive value against test datasets referenced in IEC 60601-2-47.
● Arrhythmia Detection Validation: Evaluating heart rate (HR) and R-R peak against test datasets
referenced in IEC 60601-2-47.
SafeBeat Proprietary Validation Dataset
The clinical validation for the SafeBeat Rx App consisted of retrospective testing using publicly available
clinical datasets to assess the algorithm’s ability to measure QT, QRS, and HR/RR. The SafeBeat Rx App
measurements were compared with the annotations performed by board-certified cardiologists. The
cohort had a mean age of 40.9 years (range 18-87) with balanced male and female representation
(51.5% male). The race and ethnicity distribution included White (60.9%), Asian (3.8%), Black or African
American (10%), Hispanic or Latino (4.8%), Other (4.1%), or Unknown (16.5%) individuals. Body mass
index (BMI, kg/m2) ranged from normal (<25, 18.9%), overweight (≥25 and <30, 22.3%), obese (≥30,
22.6%), and Unknown (36.2%). Data was assembled from multiple independent sources.
The validation datasets included ECG recordings from diverse patient populations collected across
multiple geographically distinct locations, encompassing healthy individuals, patients in critical care
settings, and patients with known arrhythmias. The datasets represented a broad spectrum of ECG
morphologies, including sinus rhythm, bradycardia, tachycardia, atrial arrhythmias, conduction
abnormalities, drug-induced QTc prolongation, and clinically relevant T-wave, U-wave, and T-U wave
fusion morphology.
Software-generated QT, QRS, and HR/RR measurements were compared against annotations performed
by board-certified cardiologists with excellent agreement.
Standard ECG Test Databases (defined by IEC 60601-2-47)
The IEC 60601-2-47 standard references three datasets for testing: MIT-BIH Normal Sinus Rhythm
dataset, AHA database, and MIT-BIH Noise Stress Test dataset. The testing included QRS sensitivity and
positive predictivity results and the Heart Rate/RR root mean square error (RMSE) and RMSE Percent
(%) using established metrics.
Testing on IEC 60601-2-47 reference ECG databases demonstrated effective beat-segment/QRS
detection as well as heart rate/R-R interval estimation performance.
Common Standards for Electrocardiography (CSE) Database (defined by IEC 60601-2-25)
11K251218
Performance testing in accordance with IEC 60601-2-25 was conducted using ECG recordings containing
CSE reference measurements. Global QT interval and QRS duration measurements demonstrated
excellent agreement with manual CSE reference measurements.
Conclusion
Based on the results of the nonclinical and clinical performance testing, the SafeBeat Rx App is
substantially equivalent to the predicate device with respect to intended use, technological characteristics,
and performance.
These results demonstrate that the device performs as well as or better than the predicate and that any
differences in technological characteristics do not raise new questions of safety or effectiveness
compared to the predicate. Therefore, the SafeBeat Rx is at least as safe and effective as the legally
marketed predicate device, as required by 21 CFR 807.92(b)(3).
12