Aidoc Medical, Ltd.
℅ John Smith
Partner
Hogan Lovells US LLP
555 Thirteenth Street NW
January 27, 2026
Washington, District of Columbia 20004
Re: K251195
Trade/Device Name: BriefCase-Triage
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2080
Regulation Name: Radiological Computer Aided Triage And Notification Software
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QAS
Dated: December 22, 2025
Received: December 22, 2025
Dear John Smith:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.02
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK251195 - John Smith Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A)for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K251195 - John Smith Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb, PhD
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 06/30/2023
Indications for Use
See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K251195
Device Name
BriefCase-Triage
Indications for Use (Describe)
BriefCase-Triage is a radiological computer aided triage and notification software indicated for use in the analysis of
contrast-enhanced CT images that include the brain, in adults or transitional adolescents aged 18 and older. The device is
intended to assist hospital networks and appropriately trained medical specialists in workflow triage by flagging and
communication of suspected positive cases of Brain Aneurysm (BA) findings that are 3.0 mm or larger.
BriefCase-Triage uses an artificial intelligence algorithm to analyze images and flag suspect cases in parallel to the
ongoing standard of care image interpretation. The user is presented with notifications for suspect cases. Notifications
include compressed preview images that are meant for informational purposes only and not intended for diagnostic use
beyond notification. The device does not alter the original medical image and is not intended to be used as a diagnostic
device.
The results of BriefCase-Triage are intended to be used in conjunction with other patient information and based on
professional judgment, to assist with triage/prioritization of medical images. Notified clinicians are responsible for
viewing full images per the standard of care.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (6/20) Page 1 of 1
PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFK251195
510(k) Summary
Aidoc Medical, Ltd.’s BriefCase-Triage
K251195
Submitter:
Aidoc Medical, Ltd.
34 Hamasger St.
Tel-Aviv, Israel, 6721119
Phone: +972-73-7946870
Contact Person: Amalia Schreier, LL.M
Date Prepared: January 24, 2025
Name of Device: BriefCase-Triage
Classification Name: Radiological computer-assisted triage and notification software
device
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QAS (21 C.F.R. 892.2080)
Primary Predicate Device: BriefCase-Triage for BA (K213721)
Reference Device: BriefCase-Triage for iPE (K250248)
Rapid Aneurysm Triage and Notification (K230074)
Viz ANEURYSM, Viz ANX (K213319)
Device Description
Briefcase-Triage is a radiological computer-assisted triage and notification software device.
The software is based on an algorithm programmed component and is intended to run on a linux-based server
in a cloud environment.
The BriefCase-Triage receives filtered DICOM Images, and processes them chronologically by running the
algorithms on each series to detect suspected cases. Following the AI processing, the output of the algorithm
analysis is transferred to an image review software (desktop application). When a suspected case is detected,
the user receives a pop-up notification and is presented with a compressed, low-quality, grayscale image that
is captioned “not for diagnostic use, for prioritization only” which is displayed as a preview function. This
preview is meant for informational purposes only, does not contain any marking of the findings, and is not
intended for primary diagnosis beyond notification.
1Presenting the users with worklist prioritization facilitates efficient triage by prompting the user to assess the
relevant original images in the PACS. Thus, the suspect case receives attention earlier than would have been
the case in the standard of care practice alone.
The algorithm was trained during software development on images of the pathology. As is customary in the
field of machine learning, deep learning algorithm development consisted of training on manually labeled
(“tagged”) images. In that process, critical findings were tagged in all CTs in the training data set.
Intended Use / Indications for Use
BriefCase-Triage is a radiological computer aided triage and notification software indicated for use in the
analysis of contrast-enhanced CT images that include the brain, in adults or transitional adolescents aged 18
and older. The device is intended to assist hospital networks and appropriately trained medical specialists in
workflow triage by flagging and communication of suspected positive cases of Brain Aneurysm (BA) findings
that are 3.0 mm or larger.
BriefCase-Triage uses an artificial intelligence algorithm to analyze images and flag suspect cases in parallel to
the ongoing standard of care image interpretation. The user is presented with notifications for suspect cases.
Notifications include compressed preview images that are meant for informational purposes only and not
intended for diagnostic use beyond notification. The device does not alter the original medical image and is
not intended to be used as a diagnostic device.
The results of BriefCase-Triage are intended to be used in conjunction with other patient information and based
on professional judgment, to assist with triage/prioritization of medical images. Notified clinicians are
responsible for viewing full images per the standard of care.
Summary of Technological Characteristics
The subject BriefCase-Triage for BA and the algorithm analysis module for the primary predicate BriefCase-
Triage for BA (K213721) are identical in most aspects and differ mostly with respect to their algorithm
performance. In addition, the SW architecture was changed to separate the image communication platform
from the BriefCase-Triage SW. The subject device consists of only the algorithm analysis module which can be
integrated with image communication platforms that meet the BriefCase-Triage input and output
requirements.
Both the primary predicate and subject devices are radiological computer-aided triage and notification
software programs. Both devices are artificial intelligence, deep-learning algorithms incorporated in software
packages for use with DICOM compliant CT scanners, PACS, and radiology workstations.
Both devices are intended to aid in triage and prioritization of radiological images and utilize the same design
of deep learning algorithm trained on medical images. Both devices are intended to provide the specialists with
notifications and unannotated, compressed, low-quality, and grayscale preview images of suspect studies for
the purpose of preemptive triage.
2The subject and predicate BriefCase-Triage devices raise the same types of safety and effectiveness questions,
namely, accurate triage of findings within the processed study. It is important to note that, like the predicate,
the subject device neither removes cases from the standard of care reading queue nor de-prioritized cases.
Both devices operate in parallel with the standard of care, which remains the default option for all cases.
A table comparing the key features of the subject and the primary predicate devices is provided below.
Table 1. Key Feature Comparison
Subject Device Predicate Device
Aidoc BriefCase-Triage for BA Aidoc BriefCase-Triage for BA (K213721)
Intended BriefCase-Triage is a radiological computer BriefCase is a radiological computer aided
Use / aided triage and notification software triage and notification software indicated for
Indications indicated for use in the analysis of contrast- use in the analysis of head CT Angio (CTA)
for Use enhanced CT images that include the brain, images. The device is intended to assist
in adults or transitional adolescents aged 18 hospital networks and appropriately trained
and older. The device is intended to assist medical specialists in workflow triage by
hospital networks and appropriately trained flagging and communication of suspected
medical specialists in workflow triage by positive cases of Brain Aneurysm (BA) findings
flagging and communication of suspected above 5 mm size.
positive cases of Brain Aneurysm (BA)
BriefCase uses an artificial intelligence
findings that are 3.0 mm or larger.
algorithm to analyze images and flag suspect
BriefCase-Triage uses an artificial intelligence cases on a standalone desktop application in
algorithm to analyze images and flag suspect parallel to the ongoing standard of care image
cases in parallel to the ongoing standard of interpretation. The user is presented with
care image interpretation. The user is notifications for suspect cases. Notifications
presented with notifications for suspect include compressed preview images that are
cases. Notifications include compressed meant for informational purposes only and
preview images that are meant for not intended for diagnostic use beyond
informational purposes only and not notification. The device does not alter the
intended for diagnostic use beyond original medical image and is not intended to
notification. The device does not alter the be used as a diagnostic device.
original medical image and is not intended to
The results of BriefCase are intended to be
be used as a diagnostic device.
used in conjunction with other patient
The results of BriefCase-Triage are intended information and based on professional
to be used in conjunction with other patient judgment, to assist with triage/prioritization
information and based on professional of medical images. Notified clinicians are
judgment, to assist with triage/prioritization responsible for viewing full images per the
of medical images. Notified clinicians are standard of care.
3Subject Device Predicate Device
Aidoc BriefCase-Triage for BA Aidoc BriefCase-Triage for BA (K213721)
responsible for viewing full images per the
standard of care.
User Hospital networks and appropriately trained Hospital networks and appropriately trained
population medical specialists medical specialists
Threshold Brain Aneurysm (BA) findings that are 3.0 mm Brain Aneurysm (BA) findings above 5 mm size
BA size or larger
Findings
Anatomica Brain Head
l region of
interest /
Organ
Contrast-enhanced CT images that include Computed tomography angiography (CTA) of
Data
the brain the head
acquisition
protocol
Notificatio Yes Yes
n-only
(/notificati
on alerts),
parallel
workflow
tool
Images DICOM DICOM
format
Interferen No. No cases are removed from No. No cases are removed from
ce with
desktop app or deprioritized desktop app or deprioritized
standard
workflow
4Subject Device Predicate Device
Aidoc BriefCase-Triage for BA Aidoc BriefCase-Triage for BA (K213721)
Inclusion criteria Inclusion criteria
Inclusion/
● Contrast-enhanced CT images that ● computed tomography
Exclusion
include the brain angiography (CTA) of the head.
criteria for
● Scans performed on ● Scans performed on
clinical
adults/transitional adults ≥ 18 years of adults/transitional adults ≥ 18 years of
performan
age. age.
ce testing
● Slice thickness; 0.5 mm – 2.5 ● Scans performed on CT
mm axial slices. scanners with 64 or greater number of
detectors.
Exclusion Criteria ● Slice thickness; 0.5 – 2.5 mm
● All studies that have an inadequate axial slices.
field of view.
Exclusion Criteria
● All scans that are technically
inadequate, including motion artifacts,
severe metal artifacts, or an inadequate
field of view.
Additional 3 Additional Operating Points N/A
Operating
Points
Algorithm Artificial intelligence algorithm with Artificial intelligence algorithm with database
database of images. of images.
Structure - Integrated with image routing module via - AHS module ( image acquisition);
image communication platform (ICP) (image
- ACS module (image processing);
acquisition).
- Aidoc Desktop Application for workflow
- Algorithm module (image processing)
integration (Feed/Worklist (alternate
- Integrated with desktop application for names) and non-diagnostic Image
workflow integration (feed and non- Viewer).
diagnostic Image Viewer).
Performance Data
Pivotal Study Summary
Aidoc conducted a retrospective, blinded, multicenter study with the BriefCase-Triage software to evaluate the
software’s performance in identifying contrast-enhanced CT images that include the brain containing Brain
5Aneurysm in 544cases from 6 US-based clinical sites, compared to the ground truth as determined by three
senior board-certified radiologists. The cases collected for the pivotal dataset were all distinct in time or center
from the cases used to train the algorithm. Test pivotal study data was sequestered from algorithm
development activities, and use of the data is managed by appropriate Quality Management System
procedures.
Primary endpoints were sensitivity and specificity with an 80% performance goal. Secondary endpoints were
BriefCase-Triage time-to-notification compared to the predicate device. Positive Predictive Value (PPV),
Negative Predictive Value (NPV), Positive Likelihood Ratio (PLR), and Negative Likelihood Ratio (NLR) were also
assessed.
Primary Endpoint
For the primary endpoint, sensitivity was 87.8% (95% CI: 83.1%, 91.6%) and specificity was 91.6% (95% CI:
87.9%, 94.5%), meeting the study’s primary endpoint.
Secondary Endpoint
In addition, the time-to-notification metric observed for the BriefCase-Triage software, when integrated with
a compatible image communication platform, was compared to the equivalent metric of the predicate devices.
The BriefCase-Triage time-to-notification includes the time to get the DICOM exam, de-identify it, upload it to
the cloud, analyze and send a notification on a positive suspect case back to the desktop application.
The BriefCase-Triage time-to-notification was measured for all True Positive cases (i.e., identified as positive
both by the reviewers as well as the BriefCase-Triage device) and is given in Table 2 below. The Table also
displays the same metric reported for the predicate BriefCase-Triage for BA.
The time-to-notification results obtained for the subject BriefCase-Triage device show comparability with the
primary predicate with regard to time savings to the standard of care review. The BriefCase-Triage mean time-
to-notification for the subject BA triage was 44.8 seconds (95% CI: 41.4-48.2). The time-to-notification for the
predicate BA was 252 seconds (95% CI: 234-270).
Table 2. Time-to- notification comparison for BriefCase-Triage devices (Seconds)
Time -to-notification Mean N 95% Lower 95% Upper Median
Estimate CL CL
(seconds)
Predicate K213721
252 103 234 270 252
Processing Time
6Time -to-notification Mean N 95% Lower 95% Upper Median
Estimate CL CL
(seconds)
BriefCase-Triage and
Image Communication
44.8 241 41.4 48.2 38.2
Platform Time-To-
Notification
Thus, the reported similar time-to-notification data demonstrates that when using the subject BriefCase-Triage
for BA the clinician may have the same benefit in time saving as with the predicate BriefCase-Triage for BA.
NPV was 98.9% (95% CI: 98.4%-99.2%) and PPV was 47.6% (95% CI: 38.4%-57.1%).
PLR was 10.5 (95% CI: 7.2-15.3) and NLR was 0.13 (95% CI: 0.1-0.19).
As can be seen in Table 3 the mean age of patients whose scans were reviewed for BA was 61.9 years, with a
standard deviation of 17.7 years. Gender distribution was 38.1% male, and 61.9% female (Table 4). Scanner
distribution can also be found in Table 5 below.
Table 3. Descriptive Statistics for Age
Mean Std Min Median Max N
Age (Years) 61.9 17.7 18 65 98 544
Table 4. Frequency Distribution of Gender *
Gender
Ground
Truth Female Male All
Results
N % N % N %
Positive 165 30.3% 81 14.9% 246 45.2%
Negative 172 31.6% 126 23.2% 298 54.8%
All 337 61.9% 207 38.1% 544 100.0%
Table 5. Frequency Distribution of Manufacturer
7Manufacturer N %
GE MEDICAL SYSTEMS 243 44.7%
Philips 69 12.7%
SIEMENS 166 30.5%
TOSHIBA 66 12.1%
Total 544 100%
Table 6. Frequency Distribution of slice thickness
Thickness
N %
(mm)
0-1 355 65.3%
1-2.5 189 34.70%
Total 544 100%
Table 7. Frequency Distribution of protocol
Protocol N %
CT angiogram 270 49.6%
CT w/ contrast 274 50.4%
Total 544 100%
Clinical Subgroups and Confounders:
Pathologies present in negative cases: Inflammatory; Oncology; Trauma; Heart & vascular; Chronic Diseases,
Fully Negative and None of the above.
Additional Operating Points:
In addition to the default operating point that was selected to maximize both sensitivity and specificity, three
additional operating points were selected to enhance specificity gradually (with AOP3 chosen to maximize
specificity) while meeting the 80% threshold for both sensitivity and specificity.
The performance results for the algorithm at the AOP1-AOP3 is shown below in Table 8:
Table 8. Additional Operating Points
Operating Points Sensitivity % (95% CI)
Specificity % (95% CI)
8AOP1
87.4% (95% CI: 82.6%-91.3%) 91.9% (95% CI: 88.3%-94.8%)
AOP2
87.0% (95% CI: 82.1%-90.9%) 92.6% (95% CI: 89.0%-95.3%)
AOP3
86.2% (95% CI: 81.2%-90.2%) 93.6% (95% CI: 90.2%-96.1%)
In summary, performance goals were achieved for the default and four additional operating points. Combined
with the comparison results of time-to-notification metric with the predicate device, these data establish the
achievement by the subject BriefCase-Triage of preemptive triage in the range of several minutes.
Cybersecurity
Cybersecurity has been incorporated into the software development lifecycle in alignment with Section 524B
of the FD&C Act and FDA cybersecurity guidance. Aidoc utilizes a risk-based approach to cybersecurity,
including secure design practices, vulnerability assessments, a Software Bill of Materials (SBOM), and
penetration testing. These efforts support the safety, effectiveness, and resilience of the software against
cybersecurity threats.
Conclusions
The subject BriefCase-Triage for BA and the predicate BriefCase-Triage for BA (K213721) are intended to aid in
prioritization and triage of radiological images for the indications for suspected positive findings of incidental
pulmonary embolism pathologies. Both devices are software packages consisting of deep learning AI
algorithms that process images and produce analysis results, which are displayed to the user by a prioritization
alert and a compressed, low-quality, grayscale, unannotated preview image. In both devices, the labeling
clearly states that the devices are not for diagnostic use and instructs the user to further evaluate and diagnose
based only on the original images in the local PACS.
Both devices operate in parallel to the standard of care workflow in the sense that they do not change the
original image, do not provide any marking on the output preview, do not remove images from the standard
of care FIFO queue and do not de-prioritize cases, thus not disturbing standard interpretation of the images.
Both devices notify the radiologist of time-sensitive critical cases within the range of several minutes, and thus
contribute similarly to the standard of care workflow turnaround time reduction through preemptive triage.
The technological characteristics of both devices are identical with the exception of additional operating points
and minor changes in inclusion and exclusion criteria. These differences do not raise new questions of
substantial equivalence. The subject BriefCase-Triage device for BA is thus substantially equivalent to the
primary predicate BriefCase-Triage for BA (K213721).
9