September 9, 2025
DGNCT, LLC
℅ Kelliann Payne
Partner
Hogan Lovells US LLP
1735 Market Street, Floor 23
PHILADELPHIA, PA 19103
Re: K251072
Trade/Device Name: Segmentron Viewer
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical image management and processing system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: April 7, 2025
Received: August 11, 2025
Dear Kelliann Payne:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.00
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK251072 - Kelliann Payne Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K251072 - Kelliann Payne Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Lu Jiang
Lu Jiang, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Diagnostic X-Ray Systems Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiologic Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENTOFHEALTHANDHUMANSERVICES FormApproved:OMBNo.0910-0120
FoodandDrugAdministration
ExpirationDate:06/30/2023
Indications for Use SeePRAStatementbelow.
510(k)Number(ifknown)
K251072
DeviceName
SegmentronViewer
IndicationsforUse(Describe)
SegmentronViewerisasoftwareproductintendedforprocessingandmanipulatingmaxillofacialradiographicimages.
SegmentronViewerallowsuserstoperformthefollowingfunctions:
1. Viewingpatientimages(providestoolsforimageprocessingandviewingfunctions);
2. Readingand3DvisualizationofCBCTimages;
3. Generatingeditable3DSTLfiles(foreducationalpurposesonly).
Thedeviceisindicatedforusebymedicalprofessionals(suchasdentistsandradiologists),inpatients14yearsandolder
withpermanentteeth.
SegmentronViewerisawebapplication.Itcanbeusedinanetworkenvironment.
TypeofUse(Selectoneorboth,asapplicable)
PrescriptionUse(Part21CFR801SubpartD) Over-The-CounterUse(21CFR801SubpartC)
CONTINUEONASEPARATEPAGEIFNEEDED.
ThissectionappliesonlytorequirementsofthePaperworkReductionActof1995.
*DONOTSENDYOURCOMPLETEDFORMTOTHEPRASTAFFEMAILADDRESSBELOW.*
Theburdentimeforthiscollectionofinformationisestimatedtoaverage79hoursperresponse,includingthe
timetoreviewinstructions,searchexistingdatasources,gatherandmaintainthedataneededandcomplete
andreviewthecollectionofinformation.Sendcommentsregardingthisburdenestimateoranyotheraspect
ofthisinformationcollection,includingsuggestionsforreducingthisburden,to:
DepartmentofHealthandHumanServices
FoodandDrugAdministration
OfficeofChiefInformationOfficer
PaperworkReductionAct(PRA)Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“Anagencymaynotconductorsponsor,andapersonisnotrequiredtorespondto,acollectionof
informationunlessitdisplaysacurrentlyvalidOMBnumber.”
FORMFDA3881(6/20) Page1of1 PSCPublishingServices(301)443-6740 EF510(k) Summary
DGNCT LLC’S Segmentron Viewer (K251072)
Submitter
DGNCT LLC
333 Southeast 2nd Avenue, 20th Floor#563,
Miami, Florida 33131, USA
Phone: + 1 (519) 619-4212
E-mail: support@diagnocat.com
Contact Person: Anastasya Melnikov
Date Prepared: September 9, 2025
Name of Device: Segmentron Viewer
Device Classification: CFR 892.2050 Medical image management and processing system
Regulatory Class: II
Product Code: QIH
Predicate Device: Ez3D-i/E3 device (K231757) (Ewoosoft Co., Ltd.)
Device Description
Segmentron Viewer is a semi-automated software as a medical device (SaMD) for dental image
processing and management. The device’s main function is to perform automated analysis of
maxillofacial Cone Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT) images uploaded by the user, which
consists of applying artificial neural network models (AI) to such images to obtain automatically
generated 3D segmentations of teeth and anatomy. The user is able to edit these segmentations. The
device also provides functions for enhancement and 3D visualization of the images. It additionally
enables uploading, saving, and sharing CBCT images for the clinician’s ease of use.
Segmentron Viewer identifies each tooth and tooth pulp present in the upper and the lower jaw (as
shown on the input scan), numbers them, and segments them. Similarly, the device identifies each of
eight maxillofacial anatomy structures in a CBCT scan, and segments them. The software facilitates
navigation through the images for detailed evaluation and produces multi-planar reconstruction (MPR)
views of each segmented object. The device generates a segmentation report from the input CBCT
scan, for the healthcare provider’s (HCP) use to further evaluate a patient’s teeth and anatomy.
Intended Use / Indications for Use
Segmentron Viewer is a software product intended for processing and manipulating maxillofacial
radiographic images. Segmentron Viewer allows users to perform the following functions:
1. Viewing patient images (provides tools for image processing and viewing functions);
2. Reading and 3D visualization of CBCT images;
3. Generating editable 3D STL files (for educational purposes only).
Page 1 of 4The device is indicated for use by medical professionals (such as dentists and radiologists), in patients
14 years and older with permanent teeth.
Segmentron Viewer is a web application. It can be used in a network environment.
IFU comparison: Both the subject and predicate devices are intended as tools for dental
professionals to use in processing maxillofacial radiographic imaging. The differences in
specific indications for use – including Segmentron Viewer’s narrower range of input imaging
sources and image formats – do not raise different questions of safety or effectiveness, as the
fundamental clinical use is the same.
Summary of Technological Characteristics
Segmentron Viewer has the same general intended use and similar indications for use, technological
characteristics, and principles of operation as the previously cleared predicate device, Ez3D-i /E3
(K231757). Both devices are based on the same fundamental scientific technology and principles of
operation: Both are software-only, AI-based devices that utilize a supervised machine learning
algorithm to provide comparable tools for processing and manipulation of maxillofacial radiographic
images. At a high level, the two devices are based on the following same technological elements:
(cid:3511) Both devices segment the teeth and anatomical structures in a CBCT image.
(cid:3511) Both devices offer tools to export data to interface with other software.
(cid:3511) Both devices offer features such as MPR and 3D image analysis, enabling the viewing and
evaluation of radiographic images in similar ways.
(cid:3511) Both devices are DICOM compatible, ensuring similar usability and integration capabilities.
(cid:3511) Both devices support the generation of reports to document findings and enhance clinical
workflow.
Moreover, the primary differences in technology between the two devices do not raise different
questions of safety and effectiveness. Performance test data demonstrate Segmentron Viewer’s ability
to safely and effectively achieve its intended use and its various individual functions, and support its
substantial equivalence to the predicate.
The predicate supports a broader range of imaging modalities than Segmentron Viewer. However,
both products focus on providing accurate visualization and segmentation/labeling of dental and
maxillofacial images. The differences in specific visualization and processing functions do not raise
different questions of safety or effectiveness. The additional features of the subject device (such as
segmentation of pulp in addition to teeth) serve only to enhance the flexibility of its analysis. Similarly,
features of the predicate that are absent in Segmentron Viewer serve only to supplement the core
functionality of the predicate without altering the general intended use which Segmentron shares. A
table comparing the key features of the subject and predicate devices is provided below.
Performance Data
DGNCT LLC evaluated the performance of Segmentron Viewer in four retrospective standalone
validation studies, comparing the software’s segmentation and labeling performance against reference
standards (“ground truth”). The primary objective in each study was to assess the agreement between
the algorithm's output and the reference standard.
U.S. board-certified radiologists established a reference standard for each CBCT image, using manual
segmentation (for the segmentation studies) or annotation (for the labeling study). The same CBCT
Page 2 of 4images were then analyzed using the Segmentron Viewer. For the segmentation studies, Dice
Coefficient (DSC) was used as the primary endpoint to evaluate segmentation agreement between
the algorithm and the reference standard. For the labeling study, overall accuracy was used to
evaluate labeling agreement. The dataset used for the studies included CBCT scans sourced from a
variety of geographic regions and demographics. The studies are outlined below.
1. Tooth Segmentation: This study assessed the ability of Segmentron Viewer to segment and
number teeth in 126 CBCT scans of permanent teeth. Across all teeth, Segmentron
demonstrated strong segmentation agreement with the reference standard, as evidenced by
the Dice Coefficient (primary endpoint) exceeding the pre-defined performance goal (PG) with
a result of 0.96 (95% CI: 0.95, 0.96; p < 0.0001), as well as success on the pre-defined
secondary endpoints.
2. Pulp Segmentation: This study assessed the ability of Segmentron Viewer to segment dental
pulp in 43 CBCT scans. Across the pulp of all teeth, Segmentron demonstrated strong
segmentation agreement with the reference standard, as evidenced by Dice Coefficient
(primary endpoint) = 0.88 (95% CI: 0.87, 0.89; p < 0.0001) – exceeding the pre-defined PG –
and success on the secondary endpoints.
3. Anatomy Segmentation : This study assessed the ability of Segmentron Viewer to segment 8
anatomical structures in 56 CBCT scans. Across all anatomical structures, Segmentron
demonstrated strong segmentation agreement with the reference standard. The primary
endpoint was met, as the Dice Coefficients for each anatomical region exceeded their
respective pre-defined PGs.
4. Labeling Performance: This study aimed to validate the accuracy of labels automatically
generated by the device for teeth, anatomical structures, and pulp on 40 CBCT scans from the
larger validation dataset. Across all teeth, pulp, and anatomical structures in all CBCT scans,
Segmentron Viewer achieved a labeling accuracy of 100%, demonstrating strong concordance
between the labels automatically generated by the device and those determined by an expert
radiologist.
Conclusion
Segmentron Viewer is as safe and effective as the predicate device, Ez3D-i (K231757). The subject
device has the same intended use and similar indications for use, technological characteristics, and
principles of operation. The minor differences in indications do not alter the intended clinical use of the
device as compared to its predicate, nor do they affect its safety and effectiveness when used as
labeled. In addition, the minor technological differences between Segmentron Viewer and its predicate
raise no new questions of safety or effectiveness. Performance data demonstrates that the subject
device functions as intended and further supports substantial equivalence.
Page 3 of 4Criteria Subject Device: Segmentron Viewer Predicate Device: Ez3D-i /E3 (K231757) Comparison
Regulation # 21 CFR 892.2050 21 CFR 892.2050
Device Automated radiological image processing software Automated radiological image processing software Same
Product Code QIH QIH Same
Intended Use/ Segmentron Viewer is a software product intended Ez3D-i/E3 is dental imaging software that is intended to provide Same intended
Indications for for processing and manipulating maxillofacial diagnostic tools for maxillofacial radiographic imaging. These use. The minor
Use radiographic images. Segmentron Viewer allows tools are available to view and interpret a series of DICOM differences in
users to perform the following functions: compliant dental radiology images and are meant to be used indications for use
1. Viewing patient images (provides tools for image by trained medical professionals such as radiologist and
do not raise
processing and viewing functions); dentist.
different questions
2.Reading and 3D visualization of CBCT images;
of safety or
3. Generating editable 3D STL files (for educational Ez3D-i/E3 is intended for use as software to load, view and
effectiveness or
purposes only). save DICOM images from CT, panorama, cephalometric and
alter the
The device is indicated for use by medical intraoral imaging equipment and to provide 3D visualization, 2D
fundamental
professionals (such as dentists and radiologists), in analysis, in various MPR (Multi-Planar Reconstruction)
patients 14 years and older with permanent teeth. functions clinical purpose.
Segmentron Viewer is a web application. It can be
used in a network environment.
Functions and (cid:120) View and save images from CBCT scanners (cid:120) View and save images from CT, panorama, cephalometric Both are AI-
Capabilities (cid:120) Image measurement and intraoral imaging equipment based, software-
(cid:120) Multi-Planar Reconstruction (MPR) functions (cid:120) Image measurement only devices
(cid:120) 3D image viewing and reformation (cid:120) Multi-Planar Reconstruction (MPR) functions providing tools for
(cid:120) Rendering functions, e.g., MPR and 3D rendering (cid:120) 2D image viewing and analysis viewing/evaluating
(visualization), 3D zoom (cid:120) 3D image viewing and reformation (including canal pre-existing
(cid:120) Image segmentation drawing) maxillofacial
(cid:120) Export capabilities (cid:120) Rendering functions, e.g., Volume Rendering, MIP, miniIP, radiographic
(cid:120) Generates reports X-ray, and 3D zoom images. The
(cid:120) Manage and add objects (cid:120) Image Segmentation differences in
(cid:120) Image manipulation (e.g., magnify, hue, (cid:120) Transfer images specific functions
brightness) (cid:120) Generates reports
do not raise
(cid:120) Image annotation (cid:120) Manage and add objects, color maps, fine tuning
different
(cid:120) Cloud-based storage (cid:120) Image manipulation (e.g., magnify, hue, brightness)
questions.
(cid:120) Image annotation
(cid:120) Implant simulation tools for treatment planning
(cid:120) Bone density profiling
Algorithm Supervised machine learning Supervised machine learning Same
Image Format DICOM DICOM Same
Configuration Web application Desktop application Similar
Page 4 of 4