February 20, 2026
Biosense Webster, Inc.
℅ Dorit Eizenberg
Senior Regulatory Affairs Program Lead
Biosense Webster, Ltd.
4 Hatnufa Street
Yokneam, 2066717
Israel
Re: K252972
Trade/Device Name: CARTO™ 3 EP Navigation System V8.4
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 870.1425
Regulation Name: Programmable diagnostic computer
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: DQK
Dated: September 17, 2025
Received: September 17, 2025
Dear Dorit Eizenberg:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.04
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK252972 - Dorit Eizenberg Page 2
FDA's substantial equivalence determination also included the review and clearance of your Predetermined
Change Control Plan (PCCP). Under section 515C(b)(1) of the Act, a new premarket notification is not
required for a change to a device cleared under section 510(k) of the Act, if such change is consistent with an
established PCCP granted pursuant to section 515C(b)(2) of the Act. Under 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3), a new
premarket notification is required if there is a major change or modification in the intended use of a device,
or if there is a change or modification in a device that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of
the device, e.g., a significant change or modification in design, material, chemical composition, energy
source, or manufacturing process. Accordingly, if deviations from the established PCCP result in a major
change or modification in the intended use of the device, or result in a change or modification in the device
that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, then a new premarket notification
would be required consistent with section 515C(b)(1) of the Act and 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3). Failure to submit
such a premarket submission would constitute adulteration and misbranding under sections 501(f)(1)(B) and
502(o) of the Act, respectively.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the Medical Device File (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on theseK252972 - Dorit Eizenberg Page 3
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Aneesh S. Deoras -S
Aneesh Deoras
Assistant Director
Division of Cardiac Electrophysiology,
Diagnostics, and Monitoring Devices
Office of Cardiovascular Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureI
[ O v e r-T h e -C o u n te r U s e (2 1 C F R 8 0 1 S u b p a rt C ) a p p lic a b le ).
Z P re s c rip tio n P le a s e s e le c t th e ty p e s o f u s e s (s e le c t o n e o r b o th , a s D ) U s e (P a rt 2 1 C F R 8 0 1 S u b p a rt
e le c tro p h y s io lo g ic a l p ro c e d u re . T h e s y s te m h a s n o s p e c ia l c o n tra in d ic a tio n s .
lo c a tio n d u rin g th e p ro c e d u re . T h e s y s te m c a n b e u s e d o n p a tie n ts w h o a re e lig ib le fo r a c o n v e n tio n a l
T h e C A R T O 3 S y s te m p ro v id e s in fo rm a tio n a b o u t th e e le c tric a l a c tiv ity o f th e h e a rt a n d a b o u t c a th e te r
TM
T h e in te n d e d u s e o f th e C A R T O 3 S y s te m c a th e te r-b a s e d c a rd ia c e le c tro p h y s io lo g ic a l (E P ) p ro c e d u re s
T M
[
P le a s e p ro v id e y o u r In d ic a tio n s fo r U s e b e lo w .
C A R T O 3 E P N a v ig a tio n S y s te m V 8 .4
M
P le a s e p ro v id e th e d e v ic e tra d e n a m e (s ).
te x tb o x w ill b e le ft b la n k fo r o rig in a l a p p lic a tio n s /s u b m is s io n s .
K 2 5 2 9 7 2 T h is n u m b e r, k n o w n . is a p p lic a tio n /s u b m is s io n m a rk e tin g it in th e ty p e if P le a s e
I
I n d i c a t i o n s f o r U s e
7
.
I510(K) SUMMARY
Applicant: Biosense Webster, Inc.
31 Technology Drive, Suite 200
Irvine, CA 92618, USA
Tel.: (800) 729-9010
Fax: (909) 839-8500
Contact Dorit Eizenberg
Person: Regulatory Affairs Manager
Biosense Webster (Israel), Ltd.
Authored by: Dorit Eizenberg
Regulatory Affairs Manager
Biosense Webster (Israel), Ltd.
Eyal Hendel
Associate Director of Regulatory Affairs
Biosense Webster (Israel), Ltd.
Date: September 16, 2025
Device Trade CARTOTM 3 EP Navigation System V8.4
Name:
510(k) K252972
Number
Device Cardiac Mapping System
Common
Name:
Manufacturing FG-5400-00,
Number:
FG-5400-00U
Device Programmable diagnostic computer
Classification:
Class II, 21 CFR 870.1425
Product Code DQK
Predicate CARTO™ 3 EP Navigation System Version 8.1 510(k)#: K252302
Device:
Page 1 of 6Manufacturing Biosense Webster (Israel), Ltd.
Facilities: a Johnson & Johnson Company
4 Hatnufa Street
Yokneam, ISRAEL 2066717
Biosense Webster, Inc.,
23 Hubble Dr, Irvine, CA 92618
USA
Device
Description:
The CARTOTM 3 EP Navigation System V8.4, is a
catheter-based atrial and ventricular mapping
system designed to acquire and analyze navigation
catheter’s location and intracardiac ECG signals
and use this information to display 3D anatomical
and electro anatomical maps of the human heart.
The location information needed to create the
cardiac maps and the local electrograms are
acquired using specialized mapping catheters and
reference devices. The CARTOTM 3 System uses
two distinct types of location technology –
magnetic sensor technology and Advanced Catheter Location (ACL)
technology.
The CARTOTM 3 System V8.4 consists of the following hardware
components:
• Patient Interface Unit (PIU)
• Workstation with Graphic User Interface (GUI)
• Wide-Screen monitors, keyboard, and mouse
• Intracardiac In Port
• Intracardiac Out Port
• Power Supply
• Patches Connection Box and Cables (PU)
• Pedal
• Location Pad (LP)
• Signal Processing Unit (SPU)
All hardware components of the CARTOTM 3 system V8.4 are the
same as those found in the predicate device.
Indications for The intended use of the CARTOTM 3 System is catheter-based cardiac
Use: electrophysiological (EP) procedures. The CARTOTM 3 System
provides information about the electrical activity of the heart and about
catheter location during the procedure. The system can be used on
Page 2 of 6patients who are eligible for a conventional electrophysiological
procedure.
The system has no special contraindications.
The indications for use for the CARTOTM 3 System V8.4 are identical
to the indications for use of the predicate device, the CARTO™ 3
System, software V8.1.
Technological The modified CARTOTM 3 EP Navigation System V8.4 has the same
Characteristics: technological characteristics (i.e., design, material, chemical
composition, energy source) as the predicate CARTOTM 3 EP
Navigation System, software V8.1 (K252302). A summary of the
technological characteristics of the new device compared to the
predicate device is as follows:
• Have identical intended use.
• Use the same fundamental scientific technology.
• Have the same hardware platform.
• Have identical magnetic and ACL location mapping
technology.
• Have identical magnetic location sensor and ACL location
accuracy.
The differences between the predicate device and the modified device
are the addition of new software features. The legacy CARTOSOUND
FAM Module is not supported in CARTOTM 3 EP Navigation System
V8.4., as its functionality has been replaced with CARTOSOUND™
REVEAL.
1 NEW FEATURES
a. CARTOSOUND™ REVEAL Module
CARTOSOUND™ REVEAL is an automated ultrasound mapping
module for the left atrium (LA), left ventricle (LV), and their
substructures. The module is designed to enhance the fast anatomical
mapping (FAM) workflow by reducing manual contouring and
supporting integration with the SOUNDSTAR™ family of catheters
and the NUVISION™ NAV Ultrasound Catheter.
The CARTOSOUND™ REVEAL module uses locked AI algorithms
for:
• Automatic identification of cardiac structures overlayed on the
ICE images.
• Automatic 2D contours creation of cardiac structures
Page 3 of 6• Automatic 3D sell creation to be used as a baseline for LA and
LV chambers reconstruction.
Data for training and validation of the DL algorithm was collected
from a representative range of LA and LV chamber volumes and
geographical locations, using a variety of ultrasound system settings,
ULS scanners, and catheters.
The anatomical labeling and automatic contouring algorithms were
developed and tested using CARTO™ 3 System cases with ultrasound
information.
The 3D shell model was developed and tested using CT and
CARTO™ 3 System cases with FAM.
b. LA FAM Module
The LA FAM Module uses a locked Artificial Intelligence (AI)
algorithm to facilitate Fast Anatomical Mapping (FAM) by generating
a 3D shell of the Left Atrium (LA) when mapping with the
VARIPULSE™ Catheter. The acquired volume can be further
optimized using existing CARTO™ 3 System FAM mapping tools.
Data for training and validation of the DL algorithm consisted of CT
and CARTO™ 3 System cases with FAM and was collected from a
representative range of LA chamber volumes, geographical locations,
and catheters.
For CARTOSOUND REVEAL and LA FAM modules, post-market
user feedback and complaints will be routinely monitored and
evaluated under Biosense Webster quality system.
CARTOTM 3 EP Navigation System V8.4 will be updated in
accordance with the Predetermined Change Control Plan (PCCP)
which includes modifications as detailed below.
1. Additional dataset to retrain the current AI models
2. AI Models Optimizations
3. Inclusion of additional anatomical structures in
CARTOSOUND REVEAL Module.
4. Additional input devices for LA FAM Module
5. Additional CARTO map coloring
Page 4 of 66. Presentation of information imported from an external medical
device on a CARTO map.
Testing of the modifications in the PCCP will be similar to
testing performed for CARTOTM 3 EP Navigation System
V8.4.
Performance The CARTOTM 3 EP Navigation System V8.4 underwent verification and
Data: validation testing under simulated clinical conditions to verify the new
features and to demonstrate with regression testing that the modifications
performed did not negatively affect existing features.
Verification and Validation Testing
Software Verification and Validation testing completed for CARTO™ 3
System V8.4 included:
• Unit Tests – Testing was performed to verify the design
implementation in CARTOTM 3 V8.4 software aligns perfectly
with the design specifications. All tests were successfully
completed.
• Proof of Design – Testing was performed to verify the
CARTO™ 3 System V8.4 design meets its accuracy
specifications. All tests were successfully completed.
• Functional verification – Testing was performed to verify the
functional requirements of CARTOTM 3 System V8.4, including
testing of the new features and improvements. All system features
were found to perform according to specifications.
• Retrospective Validation Tests – Testing was performed
retrospectively, on clinical recorded data from historic EP
procedures performed with the CARTOTM 3 System in order to
validate the clinical functionality and quality of the introduced
modules. All testing performed were successfully completed.
Animal Testing:
Animal testing was conducted to evaluate the CARTOTM 3 System V8.4
clinical workflow under simulated clinical conditions. All test protocol
steps were successfully completed and expected results were achieved.
The modified device did not raise new questions of safety or
effectiveness.
Conclusions: The CARTOTM 3 EP Navigation System V8.4 is substantially equivalent
to the currently cleared CARTOTM 3 EP Navigation System with software
Page 5 of 6version V8.1, based on the completion of verification and validation
testing.
Page 6 of 6