May 5, 2026
Philips Ultrasound LLC
Gina Quiram
Senior Regulatory Affairs Specialist
22100 Bothell Everett Hwy
Bothell, Washington 98021-8431
Re: K252558
Trade/Device Name: Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.1550
Regulation Name: Ultrasonic Pulsed Doppler Imaging System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: IYN, IYO, ITX, QIH
Dated: April 2, 2026
Received: April 3, 2026
Dear Gina Quiram:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.05
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK252558 - Gina Quiram Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K252558 - Gina Quiram Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
YANNA S. KANG -S
Yanna Kang, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Mammography and Ultrasound Team
DHT8C: Division of Radiological
Imaging and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K252558
Device Name
Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System
Indications for Use (Describe)
The Philips Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System is intended for diagnostic ultrasound imaging in B(2D), Color Doppler,
Combined (B+Color), Pulsed Wave Doppler, and M-modes.
It is indicated for diagnostic ultrasound imaging and fluid flow analysis in the following applications:
Fetal/Obstetric, Abdominal, Pediatric, Cephalic, Urology, Gynecological, Cardiac Fetal Echo, Small Organ,
Musculoskeletal, Peripheral Vessel, Carotid, Cardiac, Lung.
The Lumify system is a transportable ultrasound system intended for use in environments where healthcare is provided by
healthcare professionals.
The Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System is intended to be used by qualified and trained healthcare professionals.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFTRADITIONAL 510(k)
Philips Ultrasound
Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System with FAST Auto Assist
510(k) Number: K252558
This summary of safety and effectiveness information is submitted in accordance with 21 CFR §
807.92.
1. Submitter’s name, address, telephone number, contact person(s)
Manufacturer: Philips Ultrasound
22100 Bothell Everett Hwy
Bothell, WA 98021-8431
Contact Person: Gina Quiram
Principal Regulatory Affairs Specialist
gina.quiram@philips.com
310-745-2695
Secondary Contact: Benny Lam
Director of Regulatory Affairs
Benny.Lam@philips.com
240-463-2679
Date Prepared: 05-May-2026
2. Name of the device, including the trade of proprietary name if applicable, the common or usual
name, and the classification name, if known:
Proprietary Name: Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System
Common Name: Diagnostic ultrasound system and transducers
Regulation Description: Product
Classification Description 21 CFR Section
Code
Primary
System, imaging, pulsed doppler,
892.1550 IYN
ultrasonic
Secondary
System, imaging, pulsed echo,
892.1560 IYO
ultrasonic
Transducer, ultrasonic, diagnostic 892.1570 ITX
Automated Radiological Image
892.2050 QIH
Processing Software
Device Class: Class II
Classification Panel: Radiology
Page 1 of 8TRADITIONAL 510(k)
Philips Ultrasound
Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System with FAST Auto Assist
3. Device Description Summary
The Philips Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System (Lumify) is a mobile, durable, and reusable,
software-controlled medical device, which is intended to acquire high-resolution ultrasound data and
to display the data in B mode (2D), Pulsed Wave Doppler, Color Doppler, Combined (B+ Color), and
M modes. The Lumify system is compatible with iOS and Android operating systems.
The Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System is compatible with iOS or Android operating systems. It
utilizes:
1. A commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) iOS mobile item (smart phone or tablet)
2. The Philips Ultrasound Lumify software running as a medical device application on the COTS
device
3. The Philips C5-2 Curved array USB transducer
4. The Philips L12-4 Linear array USB transducer
5. The Philips S4-1 Sector array USB transducer
6. Lumify Micro B Transducer Cable
7. Lumify Micro C Transducer Cable
8. Lumify USB-C to USB-C Transducer Cable
9. Lumify Power Module
Figure 1: Hardware components of Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System
The purpose of this Traditional 510(k) pre-market notification is to add software function FAST Auto
Assist to Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System.
Page 2 of 8TRADITIONAL 510(k)
Philips Ultrasound
Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System with FAST Auto Assist
4. Indications for Use and Intended Use
There is no change to the clinical indication for Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System due to the addition
of FAST Auto Assist software functions. The FAST Auto Assist software is limited to Android devices
and for adult patients about the age of 18.
4.1 Indications for Use
The Philips Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System is intended for diagnostic ultrasound imaging in
B(2D), Color Doppler, Combined (B+Color), Pulsed Wave Doppler, and M-modes.
It is indicated for diagnostic ultrasound imaging and fluid flow analysis in the following applications:
Fetal/Obstetric, Abdominal, Pediatric, Cephalic, Urology, Gynecological, Cardiac Fetal Echo, Small
Organ, Musculoskeletal, Peripheral Vessel, Carotid, Cardiac, Lung.
The Lumify system is a transportable ultrasound system intended for use in environments where
healthcare is provided by healthcare professionals.
The Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System is intended to be used by qualified and trained healthcare
professionals.
4.2 Intended Use
The intended use of the product is to collect ultrasound image data that may be used by clinicians for
diagnostic and procedural purposes. The product shall provide the ability for gathering clinically
acceptable images and ultrasound data for the clinical presets and anatomies listed under the
indications for use.
This product is intended to be installed, used, and operated only in accordance with safety procedures
and operating instructions given in the product user information, and only for the purposes for which
it was designed. However, nothing stated in the user information reduces the user’s responsibility for
sound clinical judgement and best clinical procedure.
5. Substantially Equivalent Devices
Primary Predicate Device K223771, Philips Ultrasound – Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound
(system): System
Secondary Predicate Device K233826 Kosmos Diagnostic Ultrasound System
(system):
Page 3 of 8TRADITIONAL 510(k)
Philips Ultrasound
Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System with FAST Auto Assist
6. Technological Comparison to Predicate Devices
There is no change in the intended use, technological characteristics of the proposed subject
device when compared to the predicate.
Substantial equivalency tabulations and discussion of the primary standard features of the
proposed subject device and predicate device at the system level is provided in Table 1.
Table 1: Summary of changes between proposed and predicate devices.
Standard Lumify Diagnostic Lumify Diagnostic Kosmos Diagnostic Comparison
Feature Ultrasound System Ultrasound System Ultrasound System
K252558 (Subject K223771 (Primary K233826
Device) Predicate Device) (Secondary
Predicate Device)
Scientific Ultrasound Imaging Ultrasound Imaging Ultrasound Imaging Identical
Technology
Intended Philips Lumify Philips Lumify Kosmos is intended Remains
use Diagnostic Diagnostic to be used by unchanged from
Ultrasound System Ultrasound System qualified and primary predicate
is intended for is intended for trained healthcare
diagnostic diagnostic professionals in the
ultrasound imaging ultrasound imaging clinical assessment
in B (2D), Pulsed in B (2D), Pulsed for the following
Wave, Color Wave, Color clinical applications
Doppler, Combined Doppler, Combined by acquiring,
(B+Color), and M (B+Color), and M processing,
modes. modes. displaying,
measuring, and
storing ultrasound
images, or
synchronized
ultrasound images,
electrocardiogram
(ECG) rhythms, and
digital auscultation
(DA) sounds and
waveforms.
Indications Lumify Diagnostic Lumify Diagnostic Remains
for Use Ultrasound System Ultrasound System unchanged from
is indicated for is indicated for primary predicate
diagnostic diagnostic
ultrasound imaging ultrasound imaging
and fluid flow and fluid flow
analysis in the analysis in the
following following
applications: applications:
Fetal/Obstetric, Fetal/Obstetric,
Page 4 of 8TRADITIONAL 510(k)
Philips Ultrasound
Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System with FAST Auto Assist
Standard Lumify Diagnostic Lumify Diagnostic Kosmos Diagnostic Comparison
Feature Ultrasound System Ultrasound System Ultrasound System
K252558 (Subject K223771 (Primary K233826
Device) Predicate Device) (Secondary
Predicate Device)
Abdominal, Pediatric, Abdominal,
Cephalic, Urology, Pediatric, Cephalic,
Gynecological, Urology,
Cardiac Fetal Echo, Gynecological,
Small Organ, Cardiac Fetal Echo,
Musculoskeletal, Small Organ,
Peripheral Vessel, Musculoskeletal,
Carotid, Cardiac, Peripheral Vessel,
Lung. Carotid, Cardiac,
Lung.
The Lumify system is
a transportable The Lumify system
ultrasound system is a transportable
intended for use in ultrasound system
environments where intended for use in
healthcare is provided environments where
by healthcare healthcare is
professionals. provided by
healthcare
professionals.
Modes of B (2D), Pulse Wave, B (2D), Pulse B-mode, M-mode, Remains
Operations Color Doppler, Wave, Color Color Doppler, unchanged from
Combined Doppler, Combined Pulsed-Wave (PW) primary predicate
(B+Color), and M (B+Color), and M Doppler,
modes modes Continuous-Wave
(CW) Doppler
combined modes of
B+M and B+CD,
B+PW, B+CW, and
Harmonic Imaging.
Principles of Lumify FAST Auto Not Applicable The Kosmos Similar to
Operation Assist is a software This feature was not includes the Auto secondary
(Subject: only feature. The available with this Anatomical predicate device.
FAST Auto core system software version. Structure Labeling The subject device
Assist) architecture remains and View includes a subset
unchanged. This Identification, also of the secondary
additional feature is referred to as AI predicate device:
added to detect FAST, software for real-time detection
organs and automatic real-time and labeling of the
respective zone in detection and anatomical
real-time during an labeling of structures in the
abdominal FAST anatomical LUQ (Left Upper
Exam. The software structures during Quadrant), RUQ
function detects and image acquisition (Right Upper
labels organs in the during cardiac, Quadrant), and SP
LUQ (Left Upper thoracic/lung, or (Supra-Pubic)
Page 5 of 8TRADITIONAL 510(k)
Philips Ultrasound
Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System with FAST Auto Assist
Standard Lumify Diagnostic Lumify Diagnostic Kosmos Diagnostic Comparison
Feature Ultrasound System Ultrasound System Ultrasound System
K252558 (Subject K223771 (Primary K233826
Device) Predicate Device) (Secondary
Predicate Device)
Quadrant), RUQ abdominal regions.
(Right Upper ultrasound imaging.
Quadrant), and SP
(Supra-Pubic)
regions that appear
during an abdominal
FAST exam scan.
Users Lumify Ultrasound Lumify Ultrasound KOSMOS is Remains
System is used by System is used by intended to be used unchanged from
healthcare healthcare by qualified and predicate device.
professionals. professionals. trained healthcare
professionals.
User The Lumify system is The Lumify system Not applicable Identical to
Environment a transportable is a transportable primary predicate
ultrasound system ultrasound system device
intended for use in intended for use in
environments where environments where
healthcare is provided healthcare is
by healthcare provided by
professionals. healthcare
professionals.
Transducers S4-1 S4-1 Not applicable A subset of
C5-2 C5-2 primary
L12-4 predicate’s
transducers. Only
S4-1 and C5-2
work with FAST
Auto Assist
software function.
Patient Not applicable. Not applicable. Not applicable Remains
Contact Transducers Transducers unchanged from
Materials previously cleared. previously cleared. primary predicate
Primary IYN IYN IYN Remains
Product unchanged from
Code primary predicate
Secondary IYO, ITX, QIH IYO, ITX, QIH DPS, DQD, ITX, Remains
Product IYO, QIH unchanged from
Code primary predicate
7. Safety Considerations
The proposed Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System with software function FAST Auto Assist is
Track 3 device and comply with the reference standards and with FDA ultrasound guidance
document, “Marketing Clearance of Diagnostic Ultrasound Systems and Transducers: Guidance for
Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff, February 21, 2023”.
Page 6 of 8TRADITIONAL 510(k)
Philips Ultrasound
Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System with FAST Auto Assist
8. Non-Clinical Performance Data
Non-clinical verification testing was conducted to address the system level requirements according
to system and design specifications, and risk control measures. The activities to assure the safe and
effective performance of the Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System with software function FAST
Auto Assist included, but are not limited to, the following:
• Requirements Review
• Risk Analysis and Management Review
• Product Specification Review
• Design Reviews
Biocompatibility testing is not needed for the subject Lumify Ultrasound System with FAST Auto
Assist software function as this is a software only release. The transducers patient contact materials
and manufacturing processes are not impacted by the release of the subject Lumify Ultrasound
System with FAST Auto Assist, and all the transducers that are compatible with the software are
already commercially available from Philips. Furthermore, no new hardware testing (such as IEC
60601-1, IEC 60601-2-37) was required since this change is software-based only.
Retrospective data analysis study evaluated the performance of artificial intelligence algorithms
integrated into the Philips Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System for supporting automation of
predicting abdominal zone and organs during FAST Exam scan.
The retrospective data analysis study evaluated the performance of the artificial intelligence
algorithms integrated into the Philips Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System for organ and zone
detection and labeling in the LUQ (Left Upper Quadrant), RUQ (Right Upper Quadrant), and SP
(Suprapubic). Images were collected from 82 individual patients that were presented in the
Emergency Department of suspected free fluid and eligible for FAST exam, and the study analyzed
229 video loops acquired during FAST exams. These video loops represented different abdominal
zones and transducer types (sector and curvilinear), ensuring a robust dataset for evaluating the
software's accuracy and reliability.
The independence of test data from training data was ensured by collecting data for the development
and validation of the FAST Auto Assist software from completely independent clinical sites,
involving different patients and users who acquired the data. Each subject received an ID that
incorporated the clinical site identifier to simplify the data-separation process. Specifically, the test
data was collected exclusively using the Lumify system, and the datasets used for test were separate
from those used in software development. This separation created a strong distinction between the
development and test datasets, ensuring no overlap. The subjects whose video loops were used in the
study were 35.4% female. The age of the subjects included in the study ranged from 18-89 years
with a BMI of 27.8 ± 6.1. Majority of subjects (59.8%) were white and non-Hispanic or Latino were
76.5%.
The retrospective study evaluated the performance of the FAST Auto Assist software in detecting
abdominal zones and predicting organ labels using ultrasound videos acquired during FAST exams.
The ground truth was established based on the majority consensus of the reviewers. The results from
the primary endpoint demonstrated high accuracy, with an overall accuracy of 86.0% [95% CI
80.85%–90.24%], p-value = 0.0115, meeting the pre-defined acceptance criteria for the study. Both
curvilinear and sector transducers individually exhibited high accuracy. Additional analysis across
demographic variables, including gender, BMI, age, race, and ethnicity, demonstrated consistently
high accuracy among all groups.
Page 7 of 8TRADITIONAL 510(k)
Philips Ultrasound
Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System with FAST Auto Assist
The secondary endpoint of the study was to evaluate the performance of predicting the location of
the organ label by the FAST Auto Assist software for the respective organ compared with each
reviewer. Results showed high agreement for the secondary endpoint of the study where the frame
level accuracy of 83.0%-93.4% was achieved for labeling the various organs.
Sensitivity and specificity for the zone and organ detection were also evaluated. The sensitivity for
zone detection ranged from 83.3% to 96.1%, and for organ detection ranged from 82.3% to 98.6%.
The specificity for zone detection ranged from 90.2% to 96.0%, and for organ detection ranged from
89.0% to 96.0%.
9. Clinical Performance Data
The clinical performance of the FAST Auto Assist software was evaluated in a limited study involving
20 patients with diverse demographics. Both sector (S4-1) and curved (C5-2) transducers were used.
Participants for the study had experienced physical trauma or acute medical conditions and were
suspected of having free abdominal fluid. The software correctly identified zones and organs in real
time with automatic zone detection accuracy between 85% and 95%. The sensitivity for zone
detection ranged from 85.0% to 95.0% and for organ detection ranged from 84.2% to 90.0%. The
specificity for zone detection ranged from 92.5% to 97.5% and for organ detection ranged from 95%
to 97.6%. The study demonstrated that FAST Auto Assist performs as intended in clinical scenarios
across a heterogeneous patient population, including patients with abnormalities and free fluid.
Further, the clinical bench study demonstrates the safety and effectiveness of the software function
FAST Auto Assist and confirms the device met the clinical user needs as intended.
10. Sterilization
Not applicable. The Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System’s existing transducers, including L12-4,
C5-2, and S4-1transducers are not supplied sterile.
11. Conclusion
For testing, all pre-determined acceptance criteria were met. Results of these tests show that the
proposed subject device meets its intended use.
The changes made to the subject device do not affect the use of the device, nor do they introduce any
new or significantly modified risks. The results of the relevant performance and compatibility tests
support a determination that the proposed subject device does not raise new questions of safety or
effectiveness. Therefore, the subject device is substantially equivalent to the primary predicate
K223771, Philips Ultrasound – Lumify Diagnostic Ultrasound System in terms of indications for use,
design, technological characteristics, modes of operations, safety, and effectiveness.
Page 8 of 8