January 29, 2026
Neurophet., Inc.
℅ Jonghyun Kim
CEO
Global Medical Standard Consulting Co., Ltd.
#612, De Riverwork Bldg. B
66, Cheongcho-Ro, Deogyang-Gu Goyang-Si,
Gyeonggi-Do, 10543
Republic Of Korea
Re: K252496
Trade/Device Name: Neurophet AQUA AD Plus
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical image management and processing system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH, LLZ
Dated: December 30, 2025
Received: December 30, 2025
Dear Jonghyun Kim:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.02
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK252496 - Jonghyun Kim Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K252496 - Jonghyun Kim Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Daniel M. Krainak, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
DHT8C: Division of Radiological
Imaging and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureIndications for Use
Please type in the marketing application/submission number, if it is known. This
K252496 ?
textbox will be left blank for original applications/submissions.
Please provide the device trade name(s). ?
Neurophet AQUA AD Plus
I
Please provide your Indications for Use below. ?
Neurophet AQUA AD Plus is intended for automatic labeling, visualization, and volumetric quantification of
segmentable brain structures and lesions, as well as SUVR quantification from a set of MR and PET
images. Volumetric measurements may be compared to reference percentile data.
Please select the types of uses (select one or both, as IZ] Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D)
D ?
applicable). Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
Neurophet AQUA AD PlusK252496
510(k) Summary
[As Required by 21 CFR 807.92]
1. Date Prepared [21 CFR 807.92(a)(1)]
01/27/2026
2. Submitter’s Information [21 CFR 807.92(a)(1)]
 Name of Manufacturer: NEUROPHET, Inc.
 Address: 12F, 124, Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul 06234, Republic of
Korea.
 Contact Name: Yerim Lee
 Telephone No.: 82-10-4240-6771
 Email Address: yrlee@neurophet.com
3.Identification of Proposed Device(s) [21 CFR 807.92(a)(2)]
510(k) Number K252496
Trade/Device/Model Name Neurophet AQUA AD Plus
Device Classification Name Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.2050
Classification Product Code QIH (primary), LLZ (subsequent)
Device Class Class II
510(k) Review Panel Radiology
510(k) Summary 1 / 13 Neurophet AQUA AD Plus4. Identification of Predicate Device(s) [21 CFR 807.92(a)(3)]
The identified predicate device within this submission is shown as follow;
- Predicate device #1
510(k) Number K241098
Trade/Device/Model Name NeuroQuant
Device Classification Name Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Regulation Number 892.2050
Classification Product Code QIH (primary), LLZ (subsequent)
Device Class Class II
510(k) Review Panel Radiology
- Predicate device #2
510(k) Number K221405
Trade/Device/Model Name SCALE PET
Device Classification Name Medical image management and processing system
Regulation Number 892.2050
Classification Product Code LLZ
Device Class Class II
510(k) Review Panel Radiology
These predicate devices have not been subject to a design-related recall.
510(k) Summary 2 / 13 Neurophet AQUA AD Plus5. Description of the Device [21 CFR 807.92(a)(4)]
Neurophet AQUA AD Plus is a software device intended for the automatic labeling of brain structures,
visualization, and volumetric quantification of segmented brain regions and lesions, as well as
standardized uptake value ratio (SUVR) quantification using MR and PET images. The volumetric
outcomes are compared to normative reference data to support the evaluation of neurodegeneration
and cognitive impairment.
The device is designed to assist physicians in clinical evaluation by streamlining the clinical workflow
from patient registration through image analysis, analysis result archiving, and report generation
using software-based functionalities. The device provides percentile-based results by comparing an
individual’s imaging-derived quantitative analysis results to reference populations. Percentile-based
results are provided for reference only and are not intended to serve as a standalone basis for
diagnostic decision-making. Clinical interpretation must be performed by qualified healthcare
professionals.
6. Indications for Use [21 CFR 807.92(a)(5)]
Neurophet AQUA AD Plus is intended for automatic labeling, visualization, and volumetric
quantification of segmentable brain structures and lesions, as well as SUVR quantification from a set
of MR and PET images. Volumetric measurements may be compared to reference percentile data.
510(k) Summary 3 / 13 Neurophet AQUA AD Plus7.Technological Comparison [21 CFR 807.92(a)(6)]
Provided below is a table that compares technological characteristics of the Neurophet AQUA AD Plus
and the predicate device
[Table 1. Comparison of Proposed Device to Predicate Devices]
Predicate Device Predicate Device Note
Proposed Device
#1 #2
K Number K252496 K241098 K221405 -
Manufacturer NEUROPHET, Inc. CorTechs Labs, Inc. NEUROPHET, Inc. -
Product Name Neurophet AQUA AD
NeuroQuant SCALE PET -
Plus
Product Code QIH (primary), QIH (primary),
LLZ Identical.
LLZ (subsequent) LLZ (subsequent)
Regulation
892.2050 892.2050 892.2050 Identical
Number
510(k) Review
Radiology Radiology Radiology Identical
Panel
Indications for Neurophet AQUA AD Automatic labeling, Neurophet SCALE PET
Use Plus is intended for visualization and is a software for the
automatic labeling, volumetric registration, fusion,
visualization, and quantification of display and analysis of
volumetric segmentable brain medical images from
quantification of structures and lesions multiple modalities
segmentable brain from a set of MR including MRI and
structures and lesions, images. Volumetric PET. The software aids
as well as data may be clinician in the
SUVR quantification compared to reference assessment and
from a set of MR and percentile data quantification of
PET images. pathologies from PET
Volumetric Amyloid/FDG scans of
Identical
measurements the human brain. It
may be compared to enables automatic
reference percentile analysis and
data. visualization of
amyloid protein
concentration through
the calculation of
standard uptake
volume ratios (SUVR)
within target regions
of interest and
comparison to those
within the reference
510(k) Summary 4 / 13 Neurophet AQUA AD PlusPredicate Device Predicate Device Note
Proposed Device
#1 #2
regions. The software
is deployed via
medical imaging
workplaces and is
organized as a series
of workflows which
are specific to use
with radiotracer and
disease combinations.
Design and  Automated  Automated  Automated
Incorporated measurement of measurement of measurement of
Technology brain tissue brain tissue brain tissue
volumes and volumes and volumes and
structures and structures and structures and
lesions lesions lesions
 Automatic  Automatic  Automatic
segmentation and segmentation and segmentation and
quantification of quantification of quantification of
brain structures brain structures brain structures
and lesions based and lesions using a and lesions based
on MR and PET dynamic on the MR image
image intensities probabilistic intensity and static
using static deep neuroanatomical deep-learning
learning atlas, with age and technologies
technologies. gender specificity,  Quantifies the
 Quantifies the based on the MR standardized
standardized image intensity uptake value of
Similar
uptake value of and static deep- the region of
the region of learning interest and then
interest and then technologies calculates the ratio
calculates the ratio of the
of the standardized
standardized uptake
uptake value(SUVR) by
value(SUVR) by comparing it with
comparing it with the standardized
the standardized uptake value of a
uptake value of a referenced region.
referenced region.
 Automatic
calculation of the
Centiloid scale by
SUVR, which
indicate the
degree of amyloid
510(k) Summary 5 / 13 Neurophet AQUA AD PlusPredicate Device Predicate Device Note
Proposed Device
#1 #2
accumulation, to
quantify the
severity of
dementia.
Physical  Software package  Software package  Software package
characteristics  Operates on off-  Operates on off-  Operates on off-
the-shelf the-shelf the-shelf Identical
hardware hardware hardware
(multiple vendors) (multiple vendors) (multiple vendors)
Operating Supports windows Supports Linux, Mac Supports windows
Identical
System OS X and Windows.
Processing Automated internal Automated internal Automated internal
Architecture pipeline that pipeline that pipeline that
performs: performs: performs:
-artifact correction -artifact correction -artifact correction
-segmentation -segmentation -segmentation
-lesion quantification -lesion quantification -lesion quantification Similar
-volume calculation -volume calculation -volume calculation
-SUVR calculation -report generation -SUVR calculation
-Centiloid Scale - report generation
calculation
-report generation
Data Source  MRI scanner: 3D  MRI scanner: 3D  MRI scanner: 3D
T1 and T2 FLAIR, T1 and T2 FLAIR T1-Weighted
T2* GRE / SWI and T2* GRE /  PET scanner:
MRI SWI MRI scans Amyloid PET, FDG
 PET scanner: acquired with PET
Similar
Amyloid PET specified protocols  SCALE PET
 Neurophet AQUA  NeuroQuant Supports DICOM
AD Plus Supports Supports DICOM format as input
DICOM format as format as input
input
Output  Provides  Provides  Provides
volumetric volumetric volumetric
measurements of measurements of measurements of
brain structures brain structures brain structures
and lesions and lesions and lesions
 provides the  Includes  provides the Similar
capabilities to segmented color capabilities to
adjust image overlays and adjust image
transparency and morphometric transparency and
apply color reports apply color
mapping to  Automatically mapping to
510(k) Summary 6 / 13 Neurophet AQUA AD PlusPredicate Device Predicate Device Note
Proposed Device
#1 #2
individual brain compares results individual brain
structures to reference structures
 Automatically percentile data  Quantifies the
compares results and to prior scans standardized
to reference when available uptake value
percentile data  Supports DICOM (SUV) of the
and to prior scans format as output region of interest
when available of results that can and calculates the
 Quantifies the be displayed on standardized
standardized DICOM uptake value ratio
uptake value workstations and (SUVR) by
(SUV) of the Picture Archive comparing it with
region of interest and that of a reference
and calculates the Communications region.
standardized Systems  Supports DICOM
uptake value ratio format as output
(SUVR) by of results that can
comparing it with be displayed on
the SUV of a DICOM
reference region. workstations and
The calculated Picture Archive
SUVR is then and
converted into a Communications
Centiloid unit and Systems
provided.
 Supports DICOM
format as output
of results that can
be displayed on
DICOM
workstations and
Picture Archive
and
Communications
Systems
Safety Automated quality Automated quality Automated quality
control functions: control functions: control functions:
-Tissue contrast check -Tissue contrast check -Tissue contrast check
-Scan protocol -Scan protocol -Scan protocol
verification verification verification Identical
-Atlas alignment check -Atlas alignment check -Atlas alignment check
Results must be Results must be Results must be
reviewed by a trained reviewed by a trained reviewed by a trained
physician physician physician
510(k) Summary 7 / 13 Neurophet AQUA AD PlusThe technological parameters of the Neurophet AQUA AD Plus are either identical or similar to those
of the predicate devices, and the differences do not raise new types of questions regarding the safety
and effectiveness for the proposed indications for use.
510(k) Summary 8 / 13 Neurophet AQUA AD Plus8. Non-Clinical Test Summary
The following data were provided in support of the substantial equivalence determination:
1) Software Validation
The Neurophet AQUA AD Plus contains enhanced document level of concern software. The software
was designed and developed according to a software development process and was verified and
validated. Software information is provided in accordance with FDA guidance:
• “Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software Functions,” dated June 14, 2023.
2) Performance Characteristics
Neurophet AQUA AD Plus was validated for its intended use and evaluated to determine substantial
equivalence to the predicate devices. The device consists of multiple AI modules for automated
segmentation and quantitative analysis of brain structures and lesions using MR and PET images.
Performance characteristics were established through a series of independent tests on validation
datasets that were separate from training data and reflected variability in scanner vendors, acquisition
protocols, demographics, and clinical diagnoses, summarized as follows:
a) Training Data
The AI-based modules (T1‑SegEngine, FLAIR‑SegEngine, PET‑Engine, ED‑SegEngine,
HEM‑SegEngine) were trained using multi-center MRI and PET datasets collected from public
repositories (e.g., ADNI, AIBL, PPMI) and institutional clinical sites. Training data covered:
 Adult subjects across a broad age range (approximately 20–80+ years), with both sexes
represented and including multiple racial/ethnic groups (e.g., White, Asian, Black).
 A spectrum of clinical conditions relevant to the intended use, including clinically normal,
mild cognitive impairment, and Alzheimer’s disease, as well as patients with cerebrovascular
and amyloid‑related pathologies for lesion-segmentation modules.
 MRI acquired on major vendor platforms (GE, Siemens, Philips) at 1.5T and 3T using
standard 3D T1‑weighted, T2‑FLAIR, GRE, and SWI protocols, and amyloid PET acquired on
multiple PET systems with commonly used tracers (Amyvid, Neuraceq, Vizamyl).
Training and validation datasets were strictly separated at the subject level. No images or manual
labels from the training datasets were reused in the validation datasets, ensuring independence of
performance estimates.
b) Performance Test (summary of key quantitative results)
Standalone performance tests were conducted for each module using validation datasets that were
completely independent from those used for model development and training. These test sets
reflected a variety of scanner vendors, acquisition protocols, geographic regions, demographic
backgrounds, and clinical diagnoses.
T1‑SegEngine (T1‑weighted structural MRI segmentation)
510(k) Summary 9 / 13 Neurophet AQUA AD Plus For the T1-SegEngine, standalone accuracy evaluation was performed using 60 independent T1-
weighted MRI cases, with segmentation performance assessed by comparison against expert
manual segmentations using the Dice Similarity Coefficient (DSC). The predefined acceptance
criteria for MRI segmentation accuracy, defined by the 95% confidence interval of the DSC, were
set to [0.750, 0.850] for major cortical brain structures and [0.800, 0.900] for major subcortical
brain structures. The evaluation results demonstrated a mean DSC of 0.83 ± 0.04 for cortical
regions, corresponding to a 95% confidence interval of 0.82–0.84, and a mean DSC of 0.87 ± 0.03
for subcortical regions, corresponding to a 95% confidence interval of 0.86–0.88. Accordingly, the
segmentation performance of the T1-SegEngine met the predefined acceptance criteria.
 Reproducibility: In 60 subjects with paired T1‑weighted scans (120 scans total), the mean
Average Volume Difference Percentage (AVDP) was 2.50 ± 0.93% (95% CI: 2.26–2.74) for
subcortical regions and 1.79 ± 0.74% (95% CI: 1.60–1.98) for cortical regions, within the
predefined equivalence range of 1.0–5.0%.
FLAIR‑SegEngine (T2‑FLAIR hyperintensity segmentation)
 Accuracy: In 136 independent T2‑FLAIR cases, the overall mean DSC for lesion
segmentation was 0.90 ± 0.04 (95% CI: 0.89–0.91), exceeding the predefined acceptance
criterion of mean DSC ≥ 0.80.
 Reproducibility: Paired T2‑FLAIR scans showed a mean AVDP of 0.99 ± 0.66% and a mean
absolute lesion volume difference of 0.08 ± 0.06 cc, both well within pre‑specified
equivalence criteria (absolute difference < 0.25 cc and mean AVDP < 2.5%).
PET‑Engine (SUVR and Centiloid quantification)
 SUVR accuracy: In 30 paired MRI–PET datasets including multiple tracers and sites, SUVR
values showed excellent agreement with an FDA‑cleared reference product (K221405), with
intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) ≥ 0.993 across seven Alzheimer’s‑relevant regions,
exceeding the predefined minimum threshold of 0.60.
 Centiloid classification: In 176 paired T1‑weighted MRI and amyloid PET scans from ADNI
and AIBL, Centiloid‑based amyloid positivity classifications (cutoff: 30) achieved kappa
values that met or exceeded the acceptance criterion of κ ≥ 0.70, indicating substantial
agreement with consensus expert visual reads.
ED‑SegEngine (edema‑like T2‑FLAIR hyperintensity segmentation)
 Accuracy: In 100 T2‑FLAIR scans collected from U.S. and U.K. clinical sites, the mean DSC
versus expert manual segmentations was 0.91 ± 0.09 (95% CI: 0.89–0.93), exceeding a
benchmark threshold of DSC ≥ 0.70 and demonstrating robust performance across diverse
patient populations and imaging protocols.
HEM‑SegEngine (GRE/SWI hypointense lesion segmentation)
 Accuracy: In 106 GRE/SWI scans from U.S. clinical sites, the HEM‑SegEngine achieved a
median F1‑score (DSC) of 0.860 (95% CI: 0.824–0.902), surpassing the required
510(k) Summary 10 / 13 Neurophet AQUA AD Plusbenchmark of F1‑score ≥ 0.60 and supporting robust performance for hypointense lesion
segmentation across varying sequences and demographics.
Collectively, these performance tests confirm that Neurophet AQUA AD Plus achieves segmentation
and quantification performance that meets or exceeds predicate‑based acceptance thresholds and
demonstrates consistent results across scanners, protocols, and patient subgroups, supporting its
safe and effective use within the proposed indications.
510(k) Summary 11 / 13 Neurophet AQUA AD Plusc)Validation of AI-based Segmentation and Quantification Modules
To provide additional transparency for the AI-based components, the validation of each module is
summarized in terms of the datasets, reference standards, and evaluation methods applied.
Dataset design and independence
 For all modules, validation datasets were fully independent from training datasets at the
subject level. No subjects or manual labels used for training were reused for validation, and
validation data were drawn from distinct sites and/or repositories where applicable.
Demographics and study subgroups
 Validation cohorts covered adult subjects across a broad age range (approximately 40–80+
years), with both females and males represented.
 Racial/ethnic composition included White, Asian, Black, and African American subjects,
depending on the underlying public and institutional datasets.
 Clinical subgroups included clinically normal, mild cognitive impairment, and Alzheimer’s
disease for structural, FLAIR, and PET modules, and cerebrovascular/amyloid‑related
pathologies for ED‑ and HEM‑SegEngines, capturing relevant disease spectra and potential
confounders.
Equipment and acquisition protocols
 MRI validation data spanned multiple vendors (GE, Siemens, Philips), field strengths (1.5T
and 3T), and protocol variations, including differences in voxel size, slice thickness, and
TR/TE/TI across T1‑weighted, T2‑FLAIR, GRE, and SWI sequences.
 PET validation data included multiple PET scanners and amyloid tracers (Amyvid, Neuraceq,
Vizamyl) with clinically representative acquisition parameters.
Reference standard (“truthing”) process
 For structural and lesion segmentation modules (T1‑, FLAIR‑, ED‑, HEM‑SegEngines),
reference segmentations were generated by subspecialty‑trained neuroradiologists using
predefined anatomical and lesion‑labeling criteria, with consensus/adjudication procedures
and internal quality control to ensure consistency.
 For SUVR quantification, reference values were obtained from an FDA‑cleared comparison
tool. For Centiloid classification, reference labels were derived from consensus expert visual
interpretation using established amyloid PET reading criteria.
Within this framework, the test statistics and acceptance criteria summarized in section 2.b) were
applied to each AI-based module, and all modules met their predefined thresholds. This supports
the adequacy of the validation strategy and the appropriateness of the characterized performance
for the intended quantitative, non‑interpretive use of Neurophet AQUA AD Plus.
510(k) Summary 12 / 13 Neurophet AQUA AD Plus3) Cybersecurity
• “Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality System Considerations and Content of Premarket
Submissions”, on September 27, 2023
9. Substantial Equivalence [21 CFR 807.92(b)(1) and 807.92]
There are no significant differences between the subject, predicate and reference devices, K241098
and K221405 that would adversely affect the use of the product. It is substantially equivalent to these
devices in indications for use and technology characteristics.
10. Conclusion [21 CFR 807.92(b)(3)]
In according with the Federal Food & Drug and cosmetic Act, 21 CFR Part 807, and based on the
information provided in this premarket notification, concludes that the Neurophet AQUA AD Plus is
substantially equivalent in safety and effectiveness to the predicate device as described herein.
510(k) Summary 13 / 13 Neurophet AQUA AD Plus