April 17, 2026
Conavi Medical, Inc.
℅ Sophia Farcas
Regulatory Consultant
Avania
250 Carlaw Ave., Suite 108
Toronto, Ontario M4M 3L1 CAN
Re: K252945
Trade/Device Name: Novasight Hybrid System
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 870.1200
Regulation Name: Diagnostic Intravascular Catheter
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: OBJ, NQQ, IYO
Dated: March 18, 2026
Received: March 18, 2026
Dear Sophia Farcas:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.K252945 - Sophia Farcas Page 2
FDA's substantial equivalence determination also included the review and clearance of your Predetermined
Change Control Plan (PCCP). Under section 515C(b)(1) of the Act, a new premarket notification is not
required for a change to a device cleared under section 510(k) of the Act, if such change is consistent with an
established PCCP granted pursuant to section 515C(b)(2) of the Act. Under 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3), a new
premarket notification is required if there is a major change or modification in the intended use of a device,
or if there is a change or modification in a device that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of
the device, e.g., a significant change or modification in design, material, chemical composition, energy
source, or manufacturing process. Accordingly, if deviations from the established PCCP result in a major
change or modification in the intended use of the device, or result in a change or modification in the device
that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, then a new premarket notification
would be required consistent with section 515C(b)(1) of the Act and 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3). Failure to submit
such a premarket submission would constitute adulteration and misbranding under sections 501(f)(1)(B) and
502(o) of the Act, respectively.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on theseK252945 - Sophia Farcas Page 3
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
MARCO CANNELLA -S
for:
Aneesh Deoras
Assistant Director
Division of Cardiac Electrophysiology,
Diagnostics, and Monitoring Devices
Office of Cardiovascular Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureI
Indications for Use
Please type in the marketing application/submission number, if it is known. This K252945
?
textbox will be left blank for original applications/submissions.
Please provide the device trade name(s).
Novasight Hybrid System
Please provide your Indications for Use below.
The Novasight Hybrid System is intended for intravascular imaging of coronary arteries and is indicated in
patients who are candidates for transluminal interventional procedures.
I ZPrescription
Please select the types of uses (select one or both, as Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D)
applicable). [ Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)Novasight Hybrid System
510(k) Notification
510(k) Summary
510(k) Number: K252945
Applicant Information:
Date Prepared: April 9, 2026
Name: Conavi Medical Inc.
Address: 293 Lesmill Road
North York, ON, Canada M3B 2V1
Contact Person: Sophia Farcas
sophia.farcas@avaniaclinical.com
Mobile Number: +1 (647) 970-7959
Device Information:
Trade/Proprietary Name: Novasight Hybrid System
Common Name: Novasight Hybrid System
Classification Name: Diagnostic Intravascular Catheters, 21 CFR 870.1200
Ultrasonic Pulsed Echo Imaging System, 21 CFR 892.1560
Product Code OBJ, NQQ, IYO
Class: Class II
Panel: Division of Cardiovascular Devices
Predicate Device:
• Conavi Medical Inc., Novasight Hybrid System (v1.0), K172258
Device Description:
The Novasight Hybrid System provides co-registered intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) and
optical coherence tomography (OCT) images of the coronary arteries in patients who are
candidates for transluminal interventional procedures.
The System is comprised of the following components:
• Console
• Patient Interface Module (PIM)
• Bedside Controller (BSC)
• Catheter
• Bedside Panel (BSP)
The Console is a mobile-based cart that receives raw imaging signals from the catheter via the
PIM, processes the data, and displays the resulting IVUS and OCT images. The Console is
C onavi Medical Inc. K252945 Page 1 of 6Novasight Hybrid System
510(k) Notification
used to input catheter commands for image acquisition, process, construct, and display the
imaging data, and user interface with the imaging data (enhance, manipulate, annotate,
measure, and store clinical images).
The Console additionally contains four AI algorithms used for feature detection in captured
IVUS and OCT images. The Sheath Detection Algorithm (OCT) estimates the radius of the
sheath in OCT frames, the Lumen Detection Algorithm (OCT) extracts a set of evenly spaced
points representing the lumen border in OCT frames, the EEL and Lumen Detection Algorithm
(IVUS) extracts two sets of evenly spaced points, with one representing the EEL border and
one representing the lumen border, in IVUS frames, and the Stent Strut Detection Algorithm
(OCT) extracts a set of points locating the stent struts in OCT frames. All algorithms were
trained using a combination of clinical, animal, human cadaver, and bench data. The Lumen
Detection (OCT), EEL and Lumen Detection (IVUS), and Stent Strut Detection (OCT) models
were validated using separate human cadaver and animal data. The Sheath Detection
Algorithm (OCT) was validated by demonstrating measurement accuracy against known
measurements was within the device’s OCT measurement tolerance using separate bench and
animal data.
The PIM is the electromechanical interface between the Catheter and the Console and is
situated outside the sterile field.
The BSC contains a joystick and programmable buttons to input commands for image
acquisition and image review functions (scrolling, measurement, annotation) that are also
available on Console, allowing physicians to control the system without leaving the sterile
field.
The Catheter is a sterile, single use device that integrates both an ultrasound transducer and an
optical imaging assembly, to simultaneously transmit acoustic and optical energy into the
surrounding tissue. The resulting signals are detected by the Catheter and sent to the Console
software via the PIM to produce 2 synchronized and co-registered images of the artery: one
ultrasonic and one optical. The catheter is compatible with a ≥5Fr guide catheter and is
advanced over a 0.014” guidewire via femoral or radial access.
The BSP facilitates network connectivity and serves as a centralized connection hub between
the Novasight Hybrid System components and other cath lab equipment.
Indications for Use:
The Novasight Hybrid System is intended for intravascular imaging of coronary arteries and
is indicated in patients who are candidates for transluminal interventional procedures.
C onavi Medical Inc. K252945 Page 2 of 6Novasight Hybrid System 510(k) Notification
Functional and Technological Comparison:
Table 1 below provides a functional and technological comparison between the Novasight Hybrid System (v3.0) and FDA-cleared
Novasight Hybrid System (v1.0) (K172258). Both devices have the same intended use, indications for use, mechanism of action, and
principles of operation. Technological differences between devices include system configuration changes with the addition of two (2) new
components, catheter design changes, new software functions, and improved system performance and image quality. These technological
differences do not raise new or different questions of safety and effectiveness.
Predicate Device
Subject Device
Conavi Medical Inc.
Conavi Medical Inc. Comparison
Novasight Hybrid System (v1.0)
Novasight Hybrid System (v3.0)
(K172258)
Classification II II Same
Product Code OBJ, NQQ, IYO OBJ, NQQ, IYO Same
Intended Use Intravascular imaging Intravascular imaging Same
Indications for Use The Novasight Hybrid System is intended The Novasight Hybrid System is Same
for intravascular imaging of coronary intended for intravascular imaging of
arteries and is indicated in patients who coronary arteries and is indicated in
are candidates for transluminal patients who are candidates for
interventional procedures. transluminal interventional procedures.
Mechanism of Action Emits ultrasound and infrared light from a Emits ultrasound and infrared light from Same
rotating and translating imaging core; a rotating and translating imaging core;
reflected IVUS and OCT signals are reflected IVUS and OCT signals are
captured, processed, and co-registered to captured, processed, and co-registered to
produce real-time cross-sectional images. produce real-time cross-sectional images.
System Components Catheter, Console, Patient Interface Catheter, Console, PIM Similar
Module (PIM), Bedside Controller (BSC),
Bedside Panel (BSP)
Imaging Modes B-Mode IVUS, B-Mode OCT B-Mode IVUS, B-Mode OCT Same
Ultrasound Frequency 50 MHz, broadband 40 MHz Similar
Optical Wavelength 1310 nm 1310 nm Same
Acoustic Output Does not exceed Track 1 limits. Does not exceed Track 1 limits. Same
Crossing profile in 2.6 Fr 2.8 Fr Similar
imaging window
(Nominal)
Conavi Medical Inc. K252945 Page 3 of 6Novasight Hybrid System 510(k) Notification
Predicate Device
Subject Device
Conavi Medical Inc.
Conavi Medical Inc. Comparison
Novasight Hybrid System (v1.0)
Novasight Hybrid System (v3.0)
(K172258)
Catheter Working 149 cm 149 cm Same
Length
Compatible Guidewire 0.014” 0.014” Same
Minimum Guide ≥5Fr ≥6Fr Similar
Catheter Compatibility
Rotational Speed 30–140 RPS 30–100 RPS Similar
Pullback Length 10 cm 10 cm Same
Pullback Speed 1-40 mm/s 0.5-25 mm/s Similar
Sterilization Method E-beam E-beam Same
Single Use Components Catheter only Catheter only Same
Feature Detection & Detected automatically and/or manually Manually traced by user. Similar
Measurements traced by user.
Conavi Medical Inc. K252945 Page 4 of 6Novasight Hybrid System 510(k) Notification
Performance Testing:
The following performance data were provided in support of the substantial equivalence
determination:
- Sterilization, Packaging and Shelf-Life
Sterilization and sterile barrier system packaging of single use components were
validated. Shelf life testing verified that device sterility and performance was
maintained after accelerated aging.
- Shipping and Useful Life
Device components were subjected to simulated transport testing in accordance with
ASTM D4169. Useful life testing verified device performance was maintained after
simulated reprocessing of reusable components.
- Biocompatibility
Patient contacting device components underwent biocompatibility testing in
accordance with FDA Guidance and ISO 10993-1.
- Software Verification & Validation
Software verification and validation was conducted, which included the validation of
the newly introduced algorithms. Documentation was provided as recommended by
FDA’s Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, “Content of Premarket Submissions for
Device Software Functions”.
- Electrical Safety and Electromagnetic Compatibility
Testing was performed according to IEC 60601-1, IEC 60601-2-37, IEC 60601-2-18,
and IEC 60601-1-2.
- Bench Testing
Bench testing was conducted at both the component and system level against known
standards or product specifications. Performance testing was performed under
conditions simulating intended use (simulated use testing) where applicable.
- Human Factors
Summative human factors validation testing was conducted according to FDA
Guidance: “Applying Human Factors and Usability Engineering to Medical Devices”.
Performance test results were analyzed to demonstrate substantially equivalent performance.
Results demonstrate that the Novasight Hybrid System (v3.0) is substantially equivalent to
the predicate Novasight Hybrid System (v1.0) (K172258).
Predetermined Change Control Plan (PCCP):
The Novasight Hybrid System (v3.0) includes a Predetermined Change Control Plan (PCCP)
for certain AI-enabled software functions, consistent with FDA’s guidance “Marketing
Submission Recommendations for a Predetermined Change Control Plan for Artificial
Intelligence-Enabled Device Software Functions”.
Specifically, the planned modifications allow for retraining of the OCT Sheath Detection
Conavi Medical Inc. K252945 Page 5 of 6Novasight Hybrid System 510(k) Notification
Algorithm, the OCT Lumen Detection Algorithm, the IVUS EEL and Lumen Detection
Algorithm, and/or the OCT Stent Struct Detection Algorithm, subject to the availability of
sufficient retraining and validation data. Any retraining modifications shall be subject to design
validation following the same methodology and acceptance criteria as used to originally
validate the AI algorithms for 510(k) clearance.
Following the release of any PCCP modifications, version release notes will be communicated
to all users of the device. These release notes will include a description of all modifications
made between the old and new version of the software, transparency on any differences in
performance based on the modifications, and, if applicable, any known issues that were
addressed in the update. Additionally, all device labelling will be updated to reflect the latest
version of the modified algorithm(s).
Conclusion:
The Novasight Hybrid System (v3.0) subject device, is substantially equivalent to the
Novasight Hybrid System (v1.0) (K172258) predicate device. Both devices have the same
intended use, indications for use, mechanism of action, and principles of operation. The
technological differences between the subject and predicate device do not raise different
questions of safety or effectiveness. Performance data demonstrates that the Novasight
Hybrid System (v3.0) performs as intended and in a manner that is substantially equivalent
to the predicate device. Accordingly, Conavi Medical Inc. concludes that the Novasight
Hybrid System (v3.0) is safe and effective for its intended use, is as safe and effective as the
predicate device, and is therefore substantially equivalent to the Novasight Hybrid System
(v1.0) (K172258).
Conavi Medical Inc. K252945 Page 6 of 6