January 15, 2026
Dgnct, LLC
℅ Kelliann Payne
Partner
Hogan Lovells US LLP
1735 Market St., Floor 23
PHILADELPHIA, PA 19103
Re: K252934
Trade/Device Name: Diagnocat
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2070
Regulation Name: Medical image analyzer
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: MYN
Dated: December 16, 2025
Received: December 16, 2025
Dear Kelliann Payne:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.K252934 - Kelliann Payne Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K252934 - Kelliann Payne Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Lu Jiang
Lu Jiang Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Diagnostic X-Ray Systems Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiologic Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K252934
Device Name
Diagnocat
Indications for Use (Describe)
Diagnocat software is a radiological, automated, concurrent read computer-assisted detection
software intended to aid in the detection of periapical radiolucency on permanent teeth captured on maxillofacial Cone
Beam CT images, using scans that were previously acquired for clinically justified purposes independent of Diagnocat.
Diagnocat may be used only when a dental professional has independently determined that CBCT imaging is necessary
for further evaluation of the patient. The device provides additional aid for the dental professional to use in their
identification of periapical radiolucency. The device is not intended as a replacement for a complete dental professional’s
review or their clinical judgment that considers other relevant information from the patient or other images or patient
history. The system is to be used by professionally trained and licensed dental professionals with the appropriate
knowledge and training to interpret maxillofacial CBCT images, including at least two years of clinical experience
reading and assessing CBCT scans.
Diagnocat is indicated for use by dental professionals for the second-read of CBCT radiographs of permanent teeth in
patients 22 years of age or older.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFK252934 510(k) Summary
DGNCT LLC’s Diagnocat
Submitter
DGNCT LLC
333 Southeast 2nd Avenue, 20th Floor #563,
Miami, Florida 33131, USA
https://www.diagnocat.com/
Phone: + 1 (519) 619-4212
Contact Person: Anastasya Melnikov a.melnikov@diagnocat.com
Date Prepared: December 16, 2025
Name of Device: Diagnocat
Classification Name: Medical Image Analyzer
Regulatory Class: 21 CFR 892.2070
Product Code: MYN
Predicate Device: Overjet Periapical Radiolucency Assist (K231678)
Device Description
Diagnocat Software is a computer-assisted detection (CADe) software-only device intended to
concurrently aid in the detection of periapical radiolucency areas. The device is designed to facilitate
the analysis and interpretation of previously obtained dental Cone Beam Computed Tomography
(CBCT) scans, specifically in cases where a periapical radiolucency condition is suspected, leveraging
deep learning algorithms and artificial intelligence (AI). The key features of the software are:
1. Tooth Detection and Localization: Diagnocat employs image processing techniques to identify,
number, and segment each tooth within a CBCT scan. The segmentation algorithm is employed to
achieve tooth segmentation for tooth numeration and identification.
2.Periapical Radiolucency and Localization: The software uses computer vision models to distinguish
between normal anatomical structures and areas suspected of periapical radiolucency, which is a
radiographic sign of inflammatory bone lesions at the tooth’s apex. The segmentation algorithm is
used for both segmentation and heat mapping of regions suspected of periapical radiolucencies.
3. Image Visualization: Users can upload and navigate previously acquired CBCT studies. A
panoramic reconstruction view aids users in navigating between a patient’s teeth and identifying points
of interest, and multiplanar reformatted (MPR) slices allow for detailed examination of each tooth.
The software also features non-device functions that supplement its achievement of the intended
clinical use, including a user-friendly interface, the ability to integrate with various CBCT scanning
devices, and cloud-based storage to facilitate access from multiple computers.Intended Use / Indications for Use
Diagnocat software is a radiological, automated, concurrent read computer-assisted detection
software intended to aid in the detection of periapical radiolucency on permanent teeth captured on
maxillofacial Cone Beam CT images, using scans that were previously acquired for clinically justified
purposes independent of Diagnocat. Diagnocat may be used only when a dental professional has
independently determined that CBCT imaging is necessary for further evaluation of the patient. The
device provides additional aid for the dental professional to use in their identification of periapical
radiolucency. The device is not intended as a replacement for a complete dental professional’s review
or their clinical judgment that considers other relevant information from the patient or other images or
patient history. The system is to be used by professionally trained and licensed dental professionals
with the appropriate knowledge and training to interpret maxillofacial CBCT images, including at least
two years of clinical experience reading and assessing CBCT scans.
Diagnocat is indicated for use by dental professionals for the second-read of CBCT radiographs of
permanent teeth in patients 22 years of age or older.
The subject and predicate devices have the same intended use – to aid in the detection of periapical
radiolucency. The minor differences in the specific indications for use (i.e., the input image type and
target age range) do not alter the fundamental diagnostic purpose of the device or raise different
questions of safety and effectiveness.
Summary of Technological Characteristics
The subject and predicate devices are both software-only, AI-based CADe devices that automate
detection of suspected periapical radiolucency from pre-existing DICOM inputs. Thus, they have
fundamentally the same principles of operation. Both devices analyze the input images by applying
artificial neural network models to provide anatomical and tooth localizations and to detect periapical
radiolucency, and thus have similar technological characteristics that do not raise any new safety
and/or effectiveness questions.
The primary difference in technological characteristics is the type of image analyzed (predicate: 2D X-
rays; subject device: CBCTs). However, both are medical images that are frequently relied upon for
dental evaluations, and the underlying questions of safety and effectiveness are the same – centering
around the device’s ability to accurately localize the teeth present and identify periapical radiolucency.
The output (i.e., detection of periapical radiolucency) and the intended use of the output (i.e.,
concurrent aid in HCP’s diagnosis) are substantially equivalent, and performance testing validates
each system’s ability to analyze the respective image types in furtherance of the shared intended use.
Similarly, the additional visual aids (e.g., tooth chart, annotated tooth card, panoramic reconstruction)
generated by Diagnocat do not alter the intended use of the CADe algorithm or the detection results.
The differences in compatible image formats and in the use of a web and/or desktop application are
variations in implementation that also do not raise new questions of safety or effectiveness. A table
comparing the key features of the two devices is provided below.Table 1: Comparison of Diagnocat and Predicate Device
Criteria Diagnocat (Subject Device) Overjet Periapical Radiolucency
Assist (Predicate Device) (K231678)
Classification 21 CFR 892.2070 (Medical Image 21 CFR 892.2070 (Medical Image
Analyzer) Analyzer)
Product Code MYN MYN
Indications for Diagnocat software is a radiological, Overjet Periapical Radiolucency
Use automated, concurrent read computer- (PARL) Assist is a radiological,
assisted detection software intended to automated, concurrent read computer-
assisted detection software intended to
aid in the detection of periapical
aid in the detection of periapical
radiolucency on permanent teeth
radiolucency on permanent teeth
captured on maxillofacial Cone Beam CT
captured on periapical radiographs.
images, using scans that were previously
The device provides additional aid for
acquired for clinically justified purposes
the dentist to use in their identification
independent of Diagnocat. Diagnocat of periapical radiolucency. The device
may be used only when a dental is not intended as a replacement for a
professional has independently complete dentist’s review or their
determined that CBCT imaging is clinical judgment that considers other
necessary for further evaluation of the relevant information from the image or
patient history. The system is to be
patient. The device provides additional
used by professionally trained and
aid for the dental professional to use in
licensed dentists.
their identification of periapical
radiolucency. The device is not intended The Overjet Periapical Radiolucency
Assist software is indicated for use on
as a replacement for a complete dental
patients 12 years of age or older.
professional’s review or their clinical
judgment that considers other relevant
information from the patient or other
images or patient history. The system is
to be used by professionally trained and
licensed dental professionals with the
appropriate knowledge and training to
interpret maxillofacial CBCT images,
including at least two years of clinical
experience reading and assessing CBCT
scans.
Diagnocat is indicated for use by dental
professionals for the second-read of
CBCT radiographs of permanent teeth in
patients 22 years of age or older.
Inputs CBCT images 2D X-rays
Automated 1) Panoramic Reconstruction: (1) Pathology Detection with
Detection Outputs CBCT visualization Localization: CADe of
2) Pathology Detection with suspected dental findings per
Localization: CADe of suspected tooth.
periapical radiolucency per tooth.
Dental Findings Periapical radiolucency Periapical radiolucencyCriteria Diagnocat (Subject Device) Overjet Periapical Radiolucency
Assist (Predicate Device) (K231678)
Reader Workflow Concurrent Reading Concurrent Reading
Algorithm Supervised machine learning Supervised machine learning
Image Format DICOM , JPEG, TIFF, PNG JPG, PNG, EOP, JIF, DICOM
Configuration Web and Desktop application Desktop application
Performance Data
Nonclinical Testing
Software verification and validation testing, and cybersecurity testing per FDA guidance,
“Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality System Considerations and Content of Premarket
Submissions”, were conducted to ensure that the software meets its specifications and performs as
intended.
Clinical Testing
Two separate standalone performance assessments compared the device’s outputs against a
reference standard established by expert radiologists. A Multi-Reader Multi-Case (MRMC) study was
also performed, to evaluate improvements in diagnostic ability when using the device.
Study 1 - Segmentation (Teeth and Periapical Radiolucency)
Diagnocat’s performance in the segmentation of teeth and periapical radiolucency (PARL) was
evaluated using 100 CBCT images. The study was designed with two separate subject cohorts:
● Cohort 1: General population without confirmed PARL
● Cohort 2: Subjects with confirmed PARL in at least one tooth
As shown in the results table below, Diagnocat demonstrated strong agreement in segmentation of
teeth and PARL with the reference standard. All Dice Similarity Coefficients (DSC) exceeded the pre-
defined performance goals (PG).
Endpoint Cohort Mean DSC
Teeth Segmentation Cohort 1 0.955
Teeth Segmentation Cohort 2 0.947
Periapical Radiolucency Segmentation Cohort 2 0.804
Results on the secondary metrics confirmed high performance, including consistent accuracy.
Study 2 - Detection of Periapical Radiolucency
Diagnocat’s performance in the detection of periapical radiolucency (PARL) was evaluated using 285
CBCT images. As shown in the results table below, Diagnocat demonstrated strong agreement insegmentation of PARL with the reference standard. Sensitivity (0.85) and specificity (0.99) both met
the pre-defined PGs.
Metric Mean
Sensitivity 0.854
Specificity 0.991
Secondary analysis by CBCT scanner manufacturer confirmed consistent performance in PARL
detection across scanners.
Study 3 - MRMC
This study assessed whether the Diagnocat software improves radiologist performance in detecting
PARL. As shown in the table below, the use of Diagnocat significantly improved clinician performance
in detecting PARL. When aided by Diagnocat, the average area under the ROC curve (AUC)
increased by 0.027 compared to unaided interpretation.
Reading Modality AUC
Unaided 0.8940
Aided 0.9213
AUC Difference +0.027
Secondary analysis of performance across important subgroups such as scanner manufacturer
confirmed consistent performance/performance generalizability.
Conclusion:
Diagnocat is substantially equivalent to the Overjet Periapical Radiolucency Assist (K231678).
Diagnocat has the same intended uses and similar indications, technological characteristics, and
principles of operation as its predicate device. The minor differences in indications for use do not alter
the intended use of the device and do not affect its safety and effectiveness when used as labeled. In
addition, the minor technological differences between the Diagnocat and its predicate devices raise
no new questions of safety or effectiveness. Performance data demonstrate that Diagnocat functions
as intended and is as safe and effective as the Overjet Periapical Radiolucency Assist.