January 16, 2026
Softlink International Private Limited
℅ Sakthileela Nagaiyan
Team Lead (USFDA Compliance - Medical Device)
I3CGLOBAL Reghelps PVT Ltd
MR-02, D-4, First Floor, ClayWorks Shankaraa
H&G, Shankaraa, Kanakapura Rd, Doddakallasandra
Bengaluru, Karnataka 560062
India
Re: K252634
Trade/Device Name: Imagine® Enterprise Suite
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH, LLZ
Dated: December 11, 2025
Received: December 11, 2025
Dear Sakthileela Nagaiyan:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.02
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK252634 - Sakthileela Nagaiyan Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact theK252634 - Sakthileela Nagaiyan Page 3
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
for
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureSOFTLINK INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE LIMITED
2, Anand Park, Aundh, Pune - 411 007, India.
510(k) SUMMARY
510(k) SUMMARY (510(k) number)
K252634
[AS REQUIRED BY 21CFR807.92]
I. SUBMITTER
510(k) Owner’s Name : SOFTLINK INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE LIMITED
Address : 2 Anand Park, Aundh, Pune 411007, INDIA
Telephone : +91-20-66044444
Fax Number : +91-20-25883784
Contact person : Prakash S. Kamat
Designation : Managing Director
Contact Number : +91-98230821280
Contact Email : prakash@softlinkinternational.com
Date of Summary Prepared : 01.08.2025
II. DEVICE
Trade Name : Imagine® Enterprise Suite
Device Common Name : Medical image management and processing system
Device Classification Name : Automated radiological image processing software
Class : Class II
Regulation Number : 21 CFR 892.2050
Product Code : QIH, LLZ
Page 1 of 14SOFTLINK INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE LIMITED
2, Anand Park, Aundh, Pune - 411 007, India.
510(k) SUMMARY
III. PREDICATE DEVICES
Primary Predicate Device
Predicate Device Name : MPXA-2000
510(k) Number : K222036
Device Classification Name : Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Class : Class II
Regulation Name : Medical image management and processing system
Regulation Number : 21 CFR 892.2050
Product Code : QIH
Reference Predicate Device
Predicate Device Name : Syngo.via View&GO (Version VA40A)
510(k) Number : K230196
Device Classification Name : System, image processing, radiological
Class : Class II
Regulation Name : Medical image management and processing system
Regulation Number : 21 CFR 892.2050
Product Code : LLZ
IV. DEVICE DESCRIPTION
The Imagine® Enterprise Suite (IES) has, as its backbone, the IES PACS – a DICOM stack for the
communication and storage of medical images. It is based on its predecessor, the HCP DICOM Net® PACS
(K023467). The IES is made up of the following modules:
IES_EntViewer: This viewer module can be launched from the IES PACS Worklist and is intended primarily
for the review and manipulation of angiographic X-ray images. It also supports the review of images from
other modalities in single or combination views, thereby serving as a general-purpose multi-modality viewer.
IES_EchoViewer: This viewer module can be launched from the IES Worklist and is intended for specialized
viewing, manipulation, and measurements of Echocardiography images.
Page 2 of 14SOFTLINK INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE LIMITED
2, Anand Park, Aundh, Pune - 411 007, India.
510(k) SUMMARY
IES_RadViewer: This viewer module can be launched from the IES Worklist and is intended for specialized
viewing, manipulation, and measurements of Radiological images. It also supports the fusion of Radiological
images (such as MRI and CT) with Nuclear Medicine images (such as PET and SPECT).
IES_ZFPViewer: This viewer is intended for non-diagnostic review of medical images over a web browser.
It supports an independent worklist and a viewing component that requires no installation for the end user.
It works within an intranet or over the internet via user-provided VPN or static IP.
AngioQuant: This module can be launched from the IES_EntViewer to perform automatic quantification of
coronary arteries. It uses, as input, the cardiac angiogram studies stored on the IES PACS. It is intended for
display and quantification of Xray angiographic images after image acquisition in the cathlab, for post-
procedure clinical decision support within the cathlab workflow. It is not intended for intra-procedural or real-
time use. The Imagine® Enterprise Suite (IES) is integrated with ML only for the segmentation of coronary
vessels from X-ray angiographic images and uses deep learning methodology for image analysis.
V. INDICATIONS FOR USE
Imagine® Enterprise Suite (IES) is a medical diagnostic device that receives, stores, and shares the medical
images from and to DICOM-compliant entities such as imaging modalities (such as X-ray Angiograms (XA),
Echocardiograms (US), MRI, CT, CR, DR, IVUS, OCT, PET and SPECT), external PACS, and other diagnostic
workstations. It is used in the display and quantification of medical images, after image acquisition from
modalities, for post-procedure clinical decision support. It constitutes a PACS for the communication and
storage of medical images and provides a worklist of stored medical images that can be used to open patient
studies in one of its image viewers. It is intended to display images and related information that are
interpreted by trained professionals to render findings and/or diagnosis, but it does not directly generate any
diagnosis or potential findings. Not intended for primary diagnosis of mammographic images. Not intended
for intra-procedural or real-time use. Not intended for diagnostic use on mobile devices.
VI. COMPARISON OF TECHNOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS WITH THE PREDICATE
DEVICES
Comparison Table 1: This table presents a comparison between the proposed device, Imagine® Enterprise
Suite (IES), and the primary predicate device, MPXA-2000. This comparison highlights the similarities in
concern to Automatic Quantification of XA Angiogram images and differences between the AngioQuant module
of the Imagine® Enterprise Suite and the MPXA-2000.
Page 3 of 14SOFTLINK INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE LIMITED
2, Anand Park, Aundh, Pune - 411 007, India.
510(k) SUMMARY
Sl. Primary Predicate
Features compared Proposed Device Result
No Device
1. 510(k) Number - K222036 NA
Softlink International
2. Manufacturer Medipixel, Inc. NA
Pvt Ltd
3. Classification Class II Class II Same
Same
LLZ product code
is covered in the
4. Product Code QIH, LLZ QIH other modules. i.e.
IES_ENTVIEWER,
IES_ECHOVIEWER,
IES_RADVEIWER,
IES_ZFPVIEWER.
Imagine® Enterprise
Suite (IES) is a medical
diagnostic device that MPXA-2000 is software
receives, stores, and intended to be used for
shares the medical performing calculations
images from and to in X-ray angiographic
DICOM-compliant images of the coronary
entities such as arteries. These
imaging modalities calculations are based on
(such as X-ray vessel contours which
Angiograms (XA), are automatically
Echocardiograms (US), detected by the software
MRI, CT, CR, DR, IVUS, and subsequently Same
OCT, PET and SPECT), presented for review and
external PACS, and manual editing. The The intended use
other diagnostic analysis results obtained of IES remains
5. Intended use workstations. It is used with MPXA-2000 are consistent for both
in the display and intended for use by the interpretation
quantification of cardiologists and and quantification
medical images, after radiologists: of images.
image acquisition from
modalities, for post- - to support clinical
procedure clinical decisions concerning the
decision support. It coronary arteries.
constitutes a PACS for - to support the
the communication evaluation of
and storage of medical intervention or drug
images and provides a therapy applied for
worklist of stored conditions of the
medical images that coronary arteries.
can be used to open
patient studies in one
of its image viewers. It
Page 4 of 14SOFTLINK INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE LIMITED
2, Anand Park, Aundh, Pune - 411 007, India.
510(k) SUMMARY
Sl. Primary Predicate
Features compared Proposed Device Result
No Device
is intended to display
images and related
information that are
interpreted by trained
professionals to render
findings and/or
diagnosis, but it does
not directly generate
any diagnosis or
potential findings. Not
intended for primary
diagnosis of
mammographic
images. Not intended
for intra-procedural or
real-time use. Not
intended for diagnostic
use on mobile devices.
MPXA-2000 is indicated
for use in clinical settings
where validated and
Imagine® Enterprise reproducible quantified
Suite is a software results are needed to
package that aids the support the calculations
visualization and in X-ray angiographic
quantification of images of the coronary
various medical arteries, for use on
images in DICOM individual patients with
format, when the coronary artery disease
patient is NOT in life- (CAD). MPXA 2000 is
threatening state of indicated for use in adult
health, and the time patients only. When the
for medical decision is quantified results
6. Indication For Use NOT critical. Typical provided by MPXA-2000 Same
users of this system are used in a clinical
are trained setting on X ray images
professionals, of an individual patient,
including but not they can be used to
limited to physicians, support the clinical
radiologists, decision-making for the
cardiologists, nurses, diagnosis of the patient
medical technicians, or the evaluation of the
and assistants. treatment applied. In this
case, the results are
explicitly not to be
regarded as the sole,
irrefutable basis for
clinical diagnosis, and
they are only intended
Page 5 of 14SOFTLINK INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE LIMITED
2, Anand Park, Aundh, Pune - 411 007, India.
510(k) SUMMARY
Sl. Primary Predicate
Features compared Proposed Device Result
No Device
for use by the
responsible clinicians.
7. Prescription Use or OTC Use Prescription use Prescription use Same
8. DICOM-compliant Yes Same
Yes
9. List of Modality support X-ray Angiograms (XA) X-ray Same
10. Web Diagnostic Viewer Standalone Software Standalone software Same
X-Ray angiography in X-Ray angiography in
11. Input Data type DICOM format DICOM format (vendor Same
independent)
Manual editing of automatic results
12. Yes Yes Same
by user
Automatic calibration
Automatic calibration
based on isocenter
based on calibration
calibration factor in
factor in DICOM file OR
13. Calibration DICOM file Same
automatic
Other manual calibration
segmentation of
options (catheter
catheter from image.
calibration)
The angiographic
equipment or modality
first exports the
Automatic angiographic series angiographic series to
14. loading into the software from the the IES PACS in DICOM Yes Same
angiography equipment format. Angiographic
series are loaded into
the software from the
IES PACS.
Zooming, Panning,
Zooming, Panning,
Editing Vessel Contours,
15. Visualization/ Edit Tools Editing Vessel Same
Angle, Length, Area, Text
Contours.
Annotation
Automated 2D
arterial contour Yes Yes Same
segmentation
Quantitative Classification of Yes
16. Manually by user Same
Analysis vessel types LAD, LCX, and RCA
Optional Stent
analysis including No No Same
stent edges
Page 6 of 14SOFTLINK INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE LIMITED
2, Anand Park, Aundh, Pune - 411 007, India.
510(k) SUMMARY
Sl. Primary Predicate
Features compared Proposed Device Result
No Device
Results for multiple Results for multiple
Results for multiple
lesions and lesions. No user-
lesions and additional Same
additional user- defined ROIs are
user-defined ROIa)
defined ROIa) supported.
Vessel analysis Main and side branch main and side branch Same
% Diameter Stenosis, % Diameter Stenosis,
Analysis Minimum Lumen Minimum Lumen
17.
Results Diameter (MLD), Diameter (MLD),
Vessel Proximal and Distal Proximal and Distal
Same
quantifications Diameters (at P- and D Diameters (at P- and D
marker positions), marker positions), ROIa)
Stenosis Length, Length, Reference
Reference Diameter Diameter
Stent-related
No No Same
statistics
18. Ventricle analysis No No Same
Automatically load and visualize
19. ECG data acquired from the DICOM No Yes Different
file
Automatic EoD (End of Diastole)
20. phase detection in DICOM file based No Yes Different
on ECG.
Patient and Study Patient and Study
Details, Calibration, Details, Calibration,
21. Data Reporting Annotation, Annotation, Same
Measurement, and Measurement, and
Analysis Details. Analysis details.
22. Export file formats PDF PDF, Excel Same
Comparison Table 2: This table presents a comparison between the proposed device, Imagine® Enterprise
Suite (IES), and the reference predicate device, Syngo.via View&GO VA40A. This comparison highlights the
similarities and differences among the IES_ENTViewer, IES_EchoViewer, IES_RadViewer, and IES_ZFPViewer
modules of the Imagine® Enterprise Suite (IES) and the Syngo.via View&GO system.
Sl. Reference Predicate
Features compared Proposed Device Result
No Device
1. 510(k) Number - K230196 NA
2. Manufacturer Softlink International Pvt Ltd Siemens Healthcare GmbH NA
Page 7 of 14SOFTLINK INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE LIMITED
2, Anand Park, Aundh, Pune - 411 007, India.
510(k) SUMMARY
Sl. Reference Predicate
Features compared Proposed Device Result
No Device
3. Classification Class II Class II Same
Same
QIH product
4. Product Code QIH, LLZ LLZ code is covered
in the
AngioQuant
Module
Imagine® Enterprise Suite (IES)
is a medical diagnostic device
that receives, stores, and shares
the medical images from and to
DICOM-compliant entities such
as imaging modalities (such as
X-ray Angiograms (XA),
Echocardiograms (US), MRI, CT, Syngo.via View&GO is a
CR, DR, IVUS, OCT, PET and software solution intended to
SPECT), external PACS, and be used for viewing,
other diagnostic workstations. It manipulation, communication,
is used in the display and and storage of medical
quantification of medical images, images. It can be used as a
after image acquisition from stand-alone device or together
modalities, for post-procedure with a variety of cleared and
clinical decision support. It unmodified syngo-based
constitutes a PACS for the software options. syngo.via
communication and storage of View&GO supports
5. Intended use Same
medical images and provides a interpretation and evaluation
worklist of stored medical of examinations within
images that can be used to open healthcare institutions, for
patient studies in one of its example, in Radiology, Nuclear
image viewers. It is intended to Medicine and Cardiology
display images and related environments. The system is
information that are interpreted not intended for the displaying
by trained professionals to of digital mammography
render findings and/or images for diagnosis in the
diagnosis, but it does not directly U.S.
generate any diagnosis or
potential findings. Not intended
for primary diagnosis of
mammographic images. Not
intended for intra-procedural or
real-time use. Not intended for
diagnostic use on mobile
devices.
Page 8 of 14SOFTLINK INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE LIMITED
2, Anand Park, Aundh, Pune - 411 007, India.
510(k) SUMMARY
Sl. Reference Predicate
Features compared Proposed Device Result
No Device
Imagine® Enterprise Suite is a
software package that aids the
visualization and quantification
of various medical images in
Syngo.via View&GO is
DICOM format, when the patient
indicated for image rendering
is NOT in life-threatening state of
and post-processing of DICOM
health, and the time for medical
6. Indication For Use images to support the Same
decision is NOT critical. Typical
interpretation in the fields of
users of this system are trained
radiology, nuclear medicine,
professionals, including but not
and cardiology.
limited to physicians,
radiologists, cardiologists,
nurses, medical technicians, and
assistants.
Prescription Use or OTC
7. Prescription use Prescription use Same
Use
Microsoft Windows 11- 64-bit
Server: Windows Server OS
or higher
8. Operating System 2022/Windows 11 Pro, 64 bit Same
Microsoft Windows 10- 64-bit
Client: Windows 11 Pro, 64 bit
or higher
9. DICOM-compliant Yes Yes Same
System is logically broken down
System that is logically broken
into IES PACS and IES viewers
down to syngo.via View&GO
subsystems. The IES Viewers
10. Software architecture subsystems. Subsystems are Same
further contain the
further broken down to syngo
IES_EntViewer, IES_RadViewer
modules.
and IES_EchoViewer modules.
CT Image (Computed
Tomography), MR Image
(Magnetic Resonance), NM
X-ray Angiograms (XA),
Image (Nuclear Medicine), XA
Echocardiograms (US), MRI, CT,
11. List of Modality support Image (X-Ray Angiography), Same
CR, DR, IVUS, OCT, NM (PET and
US Image (Ultrasound), DX
SPECT).
Image (Digital Radiography),
DICOM secondary capture
objects.
Standalone software for
diagnostic use.
Web-based IES ZeroFootPrint
12. Web Diagnostic Viewer Viewer (IES_ZFPViewer) is Stand-alone software Same
designed solely for browser-
based viewing and is not
intended for diagnostic purposes.
Page 9 of 14SOFTLINK INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE LIMITED
2, Anand Park, Aundh, Pune - 411 007, India.
510(k) SUMMARY
Sl. Reference Predicate
Features compared Proposed Device Result
No Device
Multiplanar reconstruction
(MPR), Maximum and
Minimum Intensity Projection
(MIP/MinIP), Volume
Rendering Technique (VRT)
with additional edge and
surface enhancements and
Multiplanar reconstruction
control over rendering
(MPR), Maximum and Minimum
parameters, Shaded Surface
Intensity Projection (MIP/MinIP),
Display (SSD), Digitally
Basic Volume Rendering with
13. Imaging Algorithms used Reconstructed Radiograph, Same
ClipBox, Multimodality
Editor functionality (e.g.
registration, automatic spine
ClipBox), Auto-Contour,
labeling (no rib labeling),
Registration, Anatomical
Cardiothoracic Ratio.
registration, Region growing,
Automatic Spine Labeling, also
for ribs in CT thorax scans
(“Rib labeling”), Reprocessing
X-ray projection images into
3D image and Topograms,
FASTAlign, Cinematic VRT1
IES_EntViewer: Line
Measurement for ECG
IES_Radviewer: Distance, Angle,
Distance, Angle & Angle [1]
Quantitative algorithms Cobb Angle, ROI
14. on-stack, VOI, and ROI Similar
used
IES_EchoViewer: Distance, Measurement
Angle, Point, Area-MOD (method
of disks), VTI (Velocity Time
Integral)
Receive & Store: Images are Receive & Store: Images are
received and stored as received received and stored as
without any change in the received without any change in
compression format. the compression format.
Display: Images are displayed Display: Images are
as received without any change displayed as received without
in the compression. any change in the
Lossy compression images are compression.
displayed with an indication to Lossy compression images are
15. Image data Compression the user with the compression displayed with an indication to Same
type (Transfer Syntax) used. the user with the compression
Export: To DICOM Node: ratio.
Images are sent as per the Export: To DICOM Node:
DICOM negotiation. Images are sent as per the
Uncompressed is preferred and DICOM negotiation.
lossy compression is not Uncompressed is preferred
supported. To Exchangeable and lossy compression is not
media: Images exported as supported. To Exchangeable
stored in the local storage.
Page 10 of 14SOFTLINK INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE LIMITED
2, Anand Park, Aundh, Pune - 411 007, India.
510(k) SUMMARY
Sl. Reference Predicate
Features compared Proposed Device Result
No Device
Supported Compressions for media: Images exported as
export: stored in the local storage.
• JPEG 2000 Image Supported Compressions
Compression for export: lossless
• JPEG Baseline (Process 1): compression algorithms, JPEG,
Default Transfer Syntax for JPEG 2000, and RLE.
Lossy JPEG 8 Bit Image
Compression
• JPEG Extended (Process 2 &
4): Default Transfer Syntax
for Lossy JPEG 12 Bit Image
Compression - (Process 4
only)
• JPEG Lossless, Non-
Hierarchical (Process 14)
• JPEG Lossless, Non-
Hierarchical, First-Order
Prediction (Process 14
[Selection Value 1]): Default
Transfer Syntax for Lossless
JPEG Image Compression
• JPEG-LS Lossless Image
Compression
• JPEG-LS Lossy (Near-
Lossless) Image
Compression
• RLE Lossless.
Return valid DICOM error codes
to the associated Application Alert the user in case the data
Entity in case the data transfer is transfer is interrupted to the
interrupted. connected DICOM node.
Hardware/Operating System/ Hardware / Operating System
Software self-test / Framework Compatibility Check compatibility check during
16.
checks during Installation. Installation. Same
Display Compatibility Check Display Compatibility Check
supports the end user to qualify supports the end user to
the system for hardware- qualify the system for proper
accelerated graphics using a diagnostic use.
GPU.
Software functionalities
Yes, with a reduced color
Yes, with text labels, and
17. Graphical User Interface palette, clearer structure, and Same
appropriate tooltips.
text labels on icons.
Yes, with simplified search
functionality, clearer structure
Yes, with simplified search
of search results, image
18. Patient Browser functionality, Study & series level Same
preview, unlimited search
results, and paging.
results, and periodic updates
of search results.
Page 11 of 14SOFTLINK INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE LIMITED
2, Anand Park, Aundh, Pune - 411 007, India.
510(k) SUMMARY
Sl. Reference Predicate
Features compared Proposed Device Result
No Device
Series-level results can be The Series Navigator lists all
enabled by the user. Shown in currently loaded data within a
19. Series Navigator Same
patient worklist with series workflow. Studies are marked
description. with colorized time points.
No, reporting support is
provided to create reports
Findings / Reporting No findings and reporting
20. using any 3rd party reporting Same
support
tool. Hence the findings also
cannot be navigated.
Import of DICOM data from
Import of DICOM data from network nodes or external
network nodes or external media, and of DICOM-
media, and of DICOM-compliant compliant or non-DICOM-
Imports and exports of
21. data from external media and compliant data from external Same
data
Windows file system. Export to media and Windows file
USB, CD/DVD, or other DICOM system. Export to USB,
nodes. Windows file system, or other
DICOM nodes.
Data can be sent to an archive
Data stored on IES PACS archive if syngo.via View&GO is
22. Archiving data Same
storage. connected to a PACS or
corresponding DICOM node.
Yes, with suggested spine
labels to be confirmed by the
Yes, with suggested spine labels
user, and additional smart
to be confirmed by the user, and
placement of labels, also in
23. Spine/Rib labeling additional smart placement of Same
inter-vertebra regions,
labels. No rib labeling.
support of 2D images, support
of multi-series studies, and
added support for rib labels.
Context-enabled help for the IES
Yes, with a reduced color
PACS worklist, ENT viewer and
24. Online help system palette, clearer structure, and Same
ZFP Viewer. User manuals for
text labels on icons
RadViewer and EchoViewer.
Yes, with support for marking
Yes, with support for marking a
25. Markers and annotations position on an image and textual a position on an image and Same
textual annotations
annotations
Show or hide image text, show
or hide custom image text,
Show or hide graphical objects show or hide graphical objects
Hiding and Showing of such as annotations and such as annotations and
26. Same
Image Overlays markers, show or hide reference markers, show or hide
lines reference lines, show or hide
shutter
Page 12 of 14SOFTLINK INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE LIMITED
2, Anand Park, Aundh, Pune - 411 007, India.
510(k) SUMMARY
VII. NON-CLINICAL PERFORMANCE DATA
The Imagine® Enterprise Suite (IES) is a software platform built on the IES PACS DICOM infrastructure and is
based on its predecessor, HCP DICOM Net® PACS (K023467).
The safety and performance of the Imagine® Enterprise Suite have been evaluated and verified against defined
software specifications derived from system design documentation, user needs, and risk management
activities. These specifications encompass core functionalities, including image acquisition, storage,
visualization, segmentation, quantification, user interface behavior, interoperability with PACS systems, and
cybersecurity. In addition, performance bench testing was conducted for applicable IES modules in comparison
with FDA-cleared predicate devices to demonstrate that safety and performance are not compromised and are
comparable to those of the predicate devices.
The IES_EntViewer, IES_EchoViewer, and IES_RadViewer modules do not incorporate deep learning or machine
learning-derived outputs and function solely based on deterministic image visualization and measurement
capabilities.
In contrast, the IES_AngioQuant module incorporates a machine learning-based coronary vessel segmentation
function. Its performance was evaluated using a retrospective, multi-center dataset. An initial assessment was
conducted on six deep learning models using predefined metric-based scoring criteria and a visual rating system
against ground-truth data. The best-performing model was selected for further training and validation and
subsequently evaluated using a comprehensive set of performance metrics, including Jaccard Index
(Intersection over Union), Dice Score, Precision, Accuracy, and Recall, in conjunction with visual assessment.
Performance was compared against the FDA-cleared predicate device, CAAS Workstation (510(k) No. K232147).
A total of 762 anonymized angiographic studies were used for training, validation, and internal testing, with an
independent external test set comprising 30 patient studies. Each sample corresponded to a single patient
angiographic study, from which artery-wise segmentation instances were derived. The datasets included adult
patients of mixed gender and represented a range of age, body habitus, and diverse race and ethnicity, sourced
from multiple U.S. and international clinical sites. Clinically relevant variability—including lesion severity, vessel
anatomy, image quality, and imaging equipment vendors—was represented. Images were acquired using
mainstream, FDA-cleared angiographic imaging systems under standard coronary angiography protocols.
The reference standard (“truthing”) was established using the FDA-cleared Medis QAngio XA (K182611)
software, with verification performed by two independent board-certified interventional cardiologists, each
with more than 10 years of clinical experience. Strict separation was maintained between training, validation,
internal testing, and external testing datasets to ensure independence of performance evaluation.
Software verification and validation activities were conducted in accordance with applicable FDA guidance and
recognized consensus standards. Softlink International Pvt. Ltd. claims conformance with the following
guidance documents and standards:
Page 13 of 14SOFTLINK INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE LIMITED
2, Anand Park, Aundh, Pune - 411 007, India.
510(k) SUMMARY
• FDA Guidance, Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical
Devices
• IEC 62304:2006 + A1:2015, Medical device software – Software life cycle processes
• ANSI AAMI ISO 14971:2019, Medical devices – Application of risk management to medical devices
• IEC 62366-1:2020, Medical devices – Application of usability engineering to medical devices
• IEC 82304-1:2016, Health software – General requirements for product safety
• NEMA PS 3.1–3.20:2023e, Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM)
VIII. SOFTWARE VERIFICATION AND VALIDATION
Software Verification and Validation (V&V) testing for the Imagine® Enterprise Suite was performed in
alignment with the FDA’s Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software Functions
(June 14, 2023). Based on the potential for a failure or latent software flaw to result in a hazardous situation
with a probable risk of death or serious injury to the patient or operator, the software has been classified
under the Enhanced Documentation Level. Accordingly, this submission includes comprehensive software
documentation consistent with FDA expectations for Enhanced Level of Concern software, encompassing
detailed design controls, risk management activities, and validation evidence to demonstrate safe and
effective performance.
The Risk Analysis was completed, and risk control was implemented to mitigate identified hazards. The testing
results support the claim that all the software specifications met the acceptance criteria. Testing for
verification and validation of the device was found acceptable to support the claims of substantial equivalence.
The Imagine® Enterprise Suite complies with the cybersecurity requirements by implementing a process that
prevents unauthorized access, modifications, misuse, denial of use, or unauthorized use of information
stored, accessed, or transferred from a medical device to an external recipient.
IX. CONCLUSION
The Imagine® Enterprise Suite is built upon the foundation of its predecessor, the HCP DICOM Net® PACS
(K023467), with its functionalities restructured into specialized modules: IES_ENT Viewer, IES_EchoViewer,
IES_RadViewer, and IES_ZFPViewer that enable more focused and specialized viewing capabilities.
Additionally, the module AngioQuant is introduced and supported by two key predicate devices syngo.via
View&GO VA40A and MPXA-2000 respectively. A comprehensive comparison of intended use, technological
features, device hazards, non-clinical performance data, and software validation confirms that the Imagine®
Enterprise Suite (IES) does not introduce any new or significant safety concerns. Based on this, we believe
that the device is as safe and effective as its predicate devices and is considered substantially equivalent.
Page 14 of 14