February 20, 2026
Cara Medical Ltd.
℅ Shimon Vaknin
RA Consultant
QR Wise Ltd
Hamapilim 4
Nesher, 3661079
ISRAEL
Re: K252500
Trade/Device Name: CARA System
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.1650
Regulation Name: Image-Intensified Fluoroscopic X-Ray System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: OWB, QIH
Dated: January 22, 2026
Received: January 22, 2026
Dear Shimon Vaknin:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.K252500 - Shimon Vaknin Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K252500 - Shimon Vaknin Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Lu Jiang
Lu Jiang, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Diagnostic X-Ray Systems Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K252500
Device Name
CARA System
Indications for Use (Describe)
The Cara System is intended for preplanning and guidance of medical interventions in an area known to contain or be
adjacent to the cardiac conduction system, such as percutaneous or surgical procedures, for example, transcatheter aortic
valve replacement (TAVR), as well as medical procedures where the physician desires to deliver therapy to the patient's
cardiac conduction system or to a targeted location within it (CSP).
The Cara System uses computed tomography angiography (CTA)-based and user manually marked landmarks to identify
the cardiac conduction axis and generate a three-dimensional (3D) map of the individual patient’s cardiac conduction
system. The system also overlays the anatomical location of the cardiac conduction system (generated by the Cara Metis
Simulator using pre-procedure CT data) onto live fluoroscopic images.
The software utilizes AI/ML algorithms to provide OCR detection, automated segmentation of anatomical structures, and
detection of catheters.
The CARA System is intended for use in adult patients (18 years of age and older).
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(K) Summary - K252500
CARA Medical Ltd CARA System
Company:
Cara Medical Ltd.
Craigmuir Chambers
Road Town, Tortola VG 1110
British Virgin Islands
Contact person:
Yael Goode, Clinical Manager
yaelg@cara-medical.co
Phone: +1 (845) 480-0137
Correspondence contact:
Shimon Vaknin, RA consultant
shimonvaknin.il@gmail.com
Phone: +972542657101
Date Prepared: February 20, 2026
Device Tradename: CARA System
Common or Usual Name: Interventional Fluoroscopic X-Ray System
Classification Name: Image-intensified fluoroscopic x-ray system
Regulation Number: 21 CFR §892.1650
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: Primary - OWB
Secondary - QIH
Predicate Device
The CARA System is substantially equivalent to the following predicate device:
• Device Tradename: Cydar EV (Series B), also referred to as Cydar EV Maps
• 510(k) Number: K212442
• Company: Cydar Medical
• Common or Usual Name: Interventional Fluoroscopic X-Ray System
• Classification Name: Image-intensified fluoroscopic x-ray system
• Regulation Number: 21 CFR §892.1650
• Regulatory Class: Class II
• Product Code: OWB
ConfidentialDevice Description
The CARA System is a medical device comprising two integrated functions. The CARA System device
components include the CARA Metis Simulator and the CARA Atlas Navigator. Both components
provide diagnostic imaging software and hardware functions that identify the personalized anatomical
location of the cardiac conduction system in relation to other heart anatomies based on a patient’s
computed tomographic angiography (CTA). The former is intended for preplanning (1) a medical
intervention in an area known to contain or be adjacent to the cardiac conduction system or (2) a
medical procedure(s) where the physician desires to deliver therapy to the patient’s cardiac
conduction system. The latter identifies the personalized anatomical location of the cardiac
conduction system overlaid on real-time, intra-procedural, fluoroscopic imaging and provides
guidance during interventional structural heart disease procedures in an area known to contain or be
adjacent to the cardiac conduction system or where the physician desires to deliver therapy to the
patient’s cardiac conduction system.
The CARA Metis Simulator uses computed tomography angiography (CTA)-based landmarks to
accurately identify the cardiac conduction axis and run a simulation generating the personalized three-
dimensional (3D) map of the individual patient’s cardiac conduction system.
This 3D map is then utilized by the clinical operator to plan any procedure to either target, as in direct
pacing, or avoid as in structural heart disease interventions, the cardiac conduction system. As
described below, this technology is based on methodical translational studies investigating the 3D
location of the cardiac conduction system relative to cardiac structures visible by clinical imaging with
initial assessment and validation in the clinical setting.
The CARA Atlas Navigator is designed to overlay the personalized anatomical location of the cardiac
conduction system (generated by the Cara Metis Simulator using pre-procedure CT data) onto live
fluoroscopic images. This functionality assists clinicians during fluoroscopy-guided interventional
heart procedures.
The Cara Atlas Navigator consists of both software and hardware components:
1) Fluoroscopy Splitter (F-Splitter) – This device splits the live fluoroscopy image for integration with
the CARA System.
2) CARA Box – A standard workstation that receives live fluoroscopy images from the Fluoroscopy
Splitter and enhances them by adding anatomical landmarks. The CARA Box acts as the system’s
central processing unit, handling data analysis and image processing. It is equipped with user
interface devices, such as a mouse and keyboard.
3) CARA Monitor – Displays the enhanced fluoroscopy images, including the analysis performed by
the CARA Box. This monitor is typically located in the control room. The same output is also
projected onto the main display in the operating room.
The CARA System utilizes a specific on-premises workflow to ensure data integrity and clinical
accuracy. Prior to physician use, a certified CARA Clinical Expert (CCE) must be physically present on-
site. The CCE logs into the CARA Box workstation to prepare the CARA Metis pre-planning process.
This includes initiating the automated segmentation, verifying the anatomical output, annotating
landmarks, and saving the results to the local storage.
ConfidentialThe physician subsequently logs into the same workstation using distinct credentials to load, review,
and confirm the pre-planned case. This workflow ensures that all generated outputs are
professionally prepared and verified before clinical review.
The CARA System utilizes AI/ML algorithms to provide OCR (Optical Character Recognition),
automated segmentations and device tracking:
• OCR detection - is used to automatically extract metadata from the live feed of the fluoroscopy
machine (e.g., c-arm position, focal distance, etc.).
• Segmentations - the system utilizes deep learning models to automatically generate
anatomical segmentations of the heart chambers and aorta.
• Device Detection - using a segmentation model the system detects the distal tips of specific
interventional devices (e.g., Pigtail catheters, CS catheters, pacing leads) within the
fluoroscopic image to support real-time tracking and present overlay.
AI-based segmentations are provided to assist the workflow but may contain inaccuracies. The AI
output should not be used as the sole basis for clinical decision-making. Clinical oversight is
mandatory.
Intended Use / Indications for Use
The Cara System is intended for preplanning and guidance of medical interventions in an area known
to contain or be adjacent to the cardiac conduction system, such as percutaneous or surgical
procedures, for example, transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR), as well as medical
procedures where the physician desires to deliver therapy to the patient's cardiac conduction system
or to a targeted location within it (CSP).
The Cara System uses computed tomography angiography (CTA)-based and user manually marked
landmarks to identify the cardiac conduction axis and generate a three-dimensional (3D) map of the
individual patient’s cardiac conduction system. The system also overlays the anatomical location of
the cardiac conduction system (generated by the Cara Metis Simulator using pre-procedure CT data)
onto live fluoroscopic images.
The software utilizes AI/ML algorithms to provide OCR detection, automated segmentation of
anatomical structures, and detection of catheters.
The CARA System is intended for use in adult patients (18 years of age and older).
Summary of Technological Characteristics
The CARA System comprises two integrated functions:
1. The Cara Metis Simulator is a Software as a Medical Device (SaMD).
2. The Cara Atlas Navigator is a Software preinstalled on a standard workstation that receives live
fluoroscopy images via the Splitter. The system is supplied with an isolation transformer.
The CARA system does not contact the patient, nor does it control any life sustaining device. The use
of the CARA system in pre-operative planning, intra-operative mapping and postoperative follow-up
is dependent on the interpretation of trained clinical specialists.
ConfidentialPredicate Device Comparison
The CARA System demonstrates substantial equivalence to the predicate device through a similar
fundamental technological approach, regulatory classification, and comparable risk profile, with
differences limited to anatomical specialization that does not affect safety or effectiveness.
A table comparing the key features of the subject and predicate device is provided below.
Substantial Equivalence Comparison Table
Cydar EV (Series B) and
Cara Medical System
Feature Cydar EV Maps Comments
(subject device)
(predicate device)
510(k) Number K252500 K212442
Regulation 21 CFR 892.1650 21 CFR 892.1650 Identical
Regulatory Class Class II Class II Identical
Product Code OWB OWB Identical
Intended Use/ The Cara System is intended Cydar EV provides tools to: Substantially equivalent.
Indications for Use for preplanning and • Import and visualise CT Both devices utilize the
guidance of medical data same fundamental
interventions in an area • Segment and annotate technology (CT-to-
known to contain or be vascular anatomy from fluoroscopy overlay).
adjacent to the cardiac CT data The anatomical focus
conduction system, such as • Place and edit virtual difference (cardiac
percutaneous or surgical guidewires and measure conduction system vs.
procedures, for example, lengths on them general vasculature)
transcatheter aortic valve • Make measurements of represents a subset
replacement (TAVR), as well anatomical structures on application that does not
as medical procedures planar sections of the CT introduce new safety or
where the physician desires data effectiveness concerns, as
to deliver therapy to the • Produce an operative both rely on identical image
patient's cardiac conduction plan from registration within the
system or to a targeted measurements and vascular system and overlay
location within it (CSP). segmentation of principles.
preoperative vessel
The Cara System uses anatomy
• Overlay planning
computed tomography
information such as
angiography (CTA)-based
preoperative vessel
and user manually marked
anatomy onto live
landmarks to identify the fluoroscopic images,
cardiac conduction axis aligned
and generate a three- • based on the position of
anatomical features
dimensional (3D) map of
present in both
the individual patient’s
• Non-rigidly transform
cardiac conduction system.
the visualisation of
The system also overlays anatomy when intra-
the anatomical location of operative vessel
the cardiac conduction deformation is observed
system (generated by the • Post-operatively
review data relating to
Cara Metis Simulator using
procedures where the
pre-procedure CT data)
system was used
onto live fluoroscopic
Cydar EV is intended to assist
images. fluoroscopic X-ray guided
endovascular procedures in
the chest, abdomen, and
ConfidentialCydar EV (Series B) and
Cara Medical System
Feature Cydar EV Maps Comments
(subject device)
(predicate device)
The software utilizes AI/ML pelvis by presenting the
algorithms to provide OCR operative plan in the context
detection, automated of intraoperative fluoroscopy.
segmentation of anatomical Cydar EV is intended to be
structures, and detection of used for patients undergoing
catheters. a fluoroscopic X-ray guided
endovascular surgery in the
The CARA System is chest abdomen and pelvis,
intended for use in adult and who have had a pre-
patients (18 years of age operative CT-scan.
and older). The performance of the Cydar
EV software in the presence
of immature vertebral
anatomy is unknown. The
Instructions for Use explicitly
state this uncertainty and that
the software is therefore not
recommended for use in
patients under the age of 18.
IMPORTANT: Pre-
Operative Maps show static
anatomy derived from the
pre-operative CT. Real-time
anatomy moves with the
cardiorespiratory cycle;
progressive disease may
cause the anatomy to change
over time; and stiff wires,
stents or other surgical
instruments, may straighten
and displace blood vessels
from the preoperative
position
It is therefore mandatory to
check the real-time anatomy
with a suitable imaging
technique, such as contrast
angiography, before
deploying any invasive
m edical device.
User Population Patients above the age of 18 Patients above the age of 18 Identical
Environment of Use Operating room, office Operating room, office Identical
(during planning) (during planning)
Major Components Standard workstation (Cara Standard workstation Similar, both use standard
Box) Standard Fluoroscopy splitter hardware; the addition of a
Standard Fluoroscopy standard commercially
splitter available monitor for the
Standard Monitor Cara Medical System does
not raise new questions of
safety or effectiveness.
Interface to Image Local DICOM files Local DICOM files or distant Similar, both systems
Sources PACS server. accept DICOM files and
provide comparable image
source integration.
Import of Patient Via DICOM imaging files Via DICOM or PACS Similar, both systems
Data imaging files import patient data from
ConfidentialCydar EV (Series B) and
Cara Medical System
Feature Cydar EV Maps Comments
(subject device)
(predicate device)
DICOM or PACS files with no
functional differences
impacting safety or
effectiveness.
List Image Segment and annotate Segment and annotate vascular Same
Functionality cardio-vascular anatomy anatomy from CT data
from CT data
Anatomical Region Cardiac conduction system General vasculature Similar; while these devices
target different regions,
they are both designed to
segment and annotate
vascular anatomy.
Image Processing Place and edit anatomical Place and edit virtual Same
landmarks and Make guidewires and measure
measurements of lengths on them Make
anatomical structures on measurements of anatomical
planar sections of the CT structures on planar sections of
data. the CT data.
Image and 3D Overlay planning Overlay planning information Similar, both systems
Display information onto live such as preoperative vessel overlay planning
fluoroscopic images, aligned anatomy onto live fluoroscopic information onto
based on the position of images, aligned based on the fluoroscopic images based
anatomical features and/or position of anatomical features on anatomical alignment,
catheters present in both. present in both. with no differences
affecting the intended
purpose.
DICOM Support Import DICOM files Import DICOM files Identical
Preoperational Import and visualize CT Import and visualize CT data; Similar, both systems
Planning data; Segment and annotate Segment and annotate vascular support CT-based
cardio-vascular anatomy anatomy from CT data; Place preoperative planning with
from CT data; Place and edit and edit virtual guidewires and annotation and
anatomical landmarks; measure lengths on them; measurement tools.
Make measurements of Make measurements of Differences reflect clinical
anatomical structures on anatomical structures on focus but do not alter core
planar sections of the CT planar sections of the CT data; functionality or intended
data; Visualize the Visualize the segmented use.
segmented cardio-vascular vascular anatomy, annotations
anatomy. +/-
measurements together (the
‘Operative Plan’)
Patient Contact No No Identical
Human Intervention Yes Yes Identical
for Interpretation of The information and The information and
Images measurements displayed, measurements displayed,
exported or printed are exported or printed are
validated and interpreted by validated and interpreted by
Physicians. Physicians.
Functionality Generates a detailed 3D Intra-operative (Fusion imaging Similar, both systems
model of the patient's functions): Overlay planning overlay anatomical models
cardiac conduction system information such as onto live fluoroscopy based
tailored to planned preoperative vessel anatomy on shared landmarks.
procedure. onto live fluoroscopic images, Differences reflect clinical
aligned based on the position application but maintain
Overlays the personalized of anatomical features present the same core imaging
anatomical location of the in both; Non-rigidly transform guidance function.
ConfidentialCydar EV (Series B) and
Cara Medical System
Feature Cydar EV Maps Comments
(subject device)
(predicate device)
cardiac conduction system the visualization of anatomy
onto live fluoroscopic when intra-operative vessel
images. deformation is observed.
Post-operative (Review
functions): Postoperatively
review data relating to
procedures where the system
was used.
AI / ML AI/ML algorithms are used Utilizes deep learning Both devices incorporate
Segmentation and for OCR metadata algorithms for CT-based automated CT-based
Image Processing extraction, automated CT- vascular segmentation and segmentation and image
based anatomical automated volume analysis. registration technologies to
segmentation and Fluoroscopic image registration generate 3D anatomical
fluoroscopic device and overlay are performed models and support
detection. Outputs require using image processing and fluoroscopic overlay.
physician review prior to tracking methods as described Differences relate to
clinical use. in the User Manual. anatomical target and
algorithm implementation
and do not alter the
fundamental technological
principles.
Intended Use Discussion
The Cara Medical System and the predicate device, Cydar EV (Series B) and Cydar EV Maps (K212442),
share a substantially equivalent intended use. Both devices are designed to provide imaging guidance
for medical procedures by overlaying pre-procedural anatomical planning information onto real-time,
intra-procedural fluoroscopic images.
Specifically, the Cara Medical System's intended use is to assist healthcare practitioners in the
preplanning and guidance of medical interventions in an area known to contain or be adjacent to the
cardiac conduction system, such as percutaneous or surgical procedures, for example, transcatheter
aortic valve replacement (TAVR), as well as medical procedures where the physician desires to deliver
therapy to the patient's cardiac conduction system or to a targeted location within it (CSP).
The predicate device, Cydar EV, is intended to assist fluoroscopic X-ray guided endovascular
procedures in the chest, abdomen, and pelvis by presenting an operative plan in the context of
intraoperative fluoroscopy. Its functionalities include importing and visualizing CT data, segmenting
and annotating vascular anatomy, placing virtual guidewires, making measurements, producing
operative plans, overlaying planning information onto live fluoroscopic images, and non-rigidly
transforming the visualization of anatomy when intra-operative vessel deformation is observed.
While the Cara Medical System focuses specifically on the cardiac conduction system and related
structural heart procedures, and the Cydar EV focuses on general vascular anatomy in endovascular
procedures, the fundamental purpose of both devices remains the same: to utilize pre-procedural CT
data to create an anatomical roadmap that is then overlaid onto live fluoroscopic images to guide
interventional procedures. The anatomical focus of the Cara Medical System represents a subset
Confidentialapplication within the broader scope of image-guided interventions, and this anatomical specialization
does not introduce new safety or effectiveness concerns. Both systems operate on the identical
principle of CT-to-fluoroscopy overlay and image registration. Both devices are intended for use by
healthcare practitioners in similar environments (operating rooms, offices for planning) and for similar
patient populations (patients above 18).
Therefore, despite the difference in the specific anatomical regions addressed, the overall intended
use and clinical application of assisting fluoroscopic-guided interventions through advanced imaging
overlay are substantially equivalent.
Technological Discussion
The CARA System and the predicate device (Cydar EV) share the same fundamental technological
approach regarding image registration, DICOM processing, and fluoroscopic overlay. Both systems
operate on the principle of registering pre-operative Computed Tomography (CT) data with real-time
intra-procedural fluoroscopic images to provide 3D anatomical guidance.
Image Data Handling - Both systems import patient data via DICOM imaging files. The Cydar EV also
supports PACS integration, which is a minor difference in data access method that does not affect the
core image processing or output. Both devices perform similar image functionalities, including
segmenting and annotating anatomical structures from CT data. While the Cara System focuses on
cardio-vascular anatomy and the predicate on vascular anatomy, the underlying segmentation and
annotation algorithms and principles are similar.
The predicate device utilizes deep learning algorithms for CT-based vascular segmentation and
automated volume analysis, as described in its User Manual. The subject device utilizes AI/ML-based
deep learning algorithms to perform automated CT-based segmentation of cardiac chambers and
aorta, as well as anatomical landmark-based modeling of the cardiac conduction system.
Although the anatomical targets differ (vascular anatomy versus cardiac conduction system), both
systems generate CT-derived 3D anatomical models through similar automated image processing
techniques. In both devices, segmentation outputs are subject to clinician review and confirmation
prior to procedural reliance.
Planning and Measurement Tools - Both systems offer pre-operational planning capabilities that
involve visualizing CT data, segmenting and annotating anatomy, and performing measurements. The
Cara System allows for placing and editing anatomical landmarks and making measurements of
anatomical structures on planar sections of the CT data, while the Cydar EV allows for placing and
editing virtual guidewires and making similar measurements. These differences are reflective of their
specific clinical applications (cardiac conduction vs. general vascular guidance) but represent
comparable image processing and planning tools.
Intra-Procedural Guidance - The most critical technological similarity lies in their intra-operative
capabilities. Both devices overlay planning information (personalized anatomical models for Cara,
preoperative vessel anatomy for Cydar EV) onto live fluoroscopic images. This alignment is based on
Confidentialthe position of anatomical features or catheters present in both imaging modalities. The Cara System's
ability to overlay the personalized anatomical location of the cardiac conduction system aligns directly
with the Cydar EV's function to overlay planning information, such as preoperative vessel anatomy
onto live fluoroscopic images.
The predicate device employs image registration and tracking methods, as described in its User
Manual, to align CT-derived vascular models with live fluoroscopy. The subject device performs CT-to-
fluoroscopy registration using anatomical landmarks and incorporates AI-based device detection and
OCR metadata extraction to assist in overlay initialization and refinement.
Although the subject device incorporates additional automated workflow-support features, the
fundamental technological characteristic in both systems is CT-derived model registration and
fluoroscopic overlay visualization under user control.
Hardware and Software Platform - Both devices utilize standard workstation hardware and interface
with standard fluoroscopy splitters and monitors. The software architecture for both is based on
processing DICOM inputs and generating graphical overlays.
Patient Contact and Human Intervention - Neither device has direct patient contact. Both require
human intervention for interpretation of images, with physicians validating and interpreting the
displayed information and measurements, ensuring clinical oversight is maintained.
Artificial Intelligence and Automated Image Processing - The CARA System and the predicate device
incorporate automated CT-based image processing to generate patient-specific three-dimensional
anatomical models and to support CT-to-fluoroscopy registration and overlay during interventional
procedures.
The predicate device utilizes deep learning algorithms for CT-based vascular segmentation and
automated volume analysis and employs image registration and tracking methods to align CT-derived
vascular models with live fluoroscopy. The subject device utilizes AI/ML-based algorithms for CT-based
cardiac anatomical segmentation, conduction system modeling, OCR-based metadata extraction, and
fluoroscopic device detection to assist in overlay initialization and refinement.
In both systems, automated outputs are intended to support procedural planning and intra-
procedural guidance and are subject to clinician review and confirmation.
The technological differences relate to anatomical specialization (cardiac conduction system versus
vascular anatomy) and specific algorithm implementation. However, both devices operate within the
same fundamental technological framework of automated CT segmentation, model generation, and
fluoroscopic overlay guidance under physician control.
Accordingly, these differences do not alter the intended use, do not change the fundamental mode of
operation, and do not raise new questions of safety or effectiveness, supporting substantial
equivalence under 21 CFR 807.92(a)(6).
ConfidentialPerformance Data
Comprehensive non-clinical, AI/ML validation, and retrospective clinical performance testing were
conducted to demonstrate substantial equivalence in accordance with 21 CFR 807.92(b)(1) and
(b)(2).
Confidential1. Non-Clinical Performance Data
The device software was verified and validated in accordance with IEC 62304, and cybersecurity
controls were validated against NIST SP 800-53 and FDA guidance to confirm the air-gapped
architecture. Electrical safety and EMC testing confirmed compliance with IEC 60601-1 and IEC
60601-1-2.
In addition, system-level bench testing was performed to validate CT-to-fluoroscopy registration
accuracy, system latency, and image fidelity.
CT-to-fluoroscopy registration testing validated geometric alignment between the CT-derived model
and live fluoroscopy using landmark-based comparison against ground truth in phantom. The system
achieved a mean registration error of ≤ 2.0 mm and a maximum error of ≤ 3.0 mm, meeting
predefined thresholds within clinically acceptable limits for fluoroscopic overlay systems.
System latency was evaluated using frame-based timing analysis with calculation of the 95% upper
confidence bound. The system demonstrated latency of ≤ 133 ms (95% upper bound), supporting
real-time synchronization during intra-procedural guidance.
Image fidelity testing assessed preservation of image quality during processing using Peak Signal-to-
Noise Ratio (PSNR) and Structural Similarity Index (SSIM). The system maintained PSNR ≥ 35 dB and
SSIM ≥ 0.95, confirming preservation of diagnostic image detail.
2. AI/ML Algorithm Performance
The CARA System incorporates AI/ML algorithms for optical character recognition (OCR), CT-based
anatomical segmentation, and fluoroscopic device detection.
Algorithms were trained using retrospective, multi-site clinical datasets. Data augmentation
techniques (e.g., rotation, scaling, and noise injection) were applied to support generalizability.
Training and test datasets were independent.
Reference annotations used for validation were generated by trained technologists and adjudicated
by a U.S. Board-Certified Interventional Cardiologist.
AI/ML Performance Summary
Feature Intended Test Ground Primary Acceptance Results
Function Dataset Truth Metric Criteria
(n) Method
Optical Extraction of 61 Manual Error rate 0 errors (≤5% 0 failures
Character fluoroscopic fluoroscopic verification of upper 95% CI observed
Recognition metadata images extracted bound)
(OCR) parameters
Anatomical CT-based 3D 50 Manual Dice DSC ≥ 0.85; All
Segmentation anatomical retrospective segmentation Similarity ASD ≤ 1.5 mm evaluated
(Cardiac model CT scans by trained Coefficient; structures
Chambers) generation technologists Average met
with physician Surface criteria
adjudication Distance
Aortic Fluoroscopic 480 Manual Dice DSC ≥ 0.85 Mean
Segmentation aortic fluoroscopic contour Similarity DSC =
segmentation images annotation Coefficient 0.962
for with physician
registration adjudication
Catheter & Distal tip 2,139 Manual distal Median ≤ 0.9 mm All
Lead localization fluoroscopic tip annotation distal tip evaluated
Detection images catheter
Confidentialduring with physician localization types met
fluoroscopy adjudication error criteria
3. Clinical Performance Data
A retrospective clinical study was conducted on 403 patients to evaluate the device's utility in
visualizing the conduction system during interventional procedures.
• TAVR Cohort (n=228): Evaluated the association between the CARA-visualized Conduction
System Axis (CSA) and post-procedural outcomes. In the retrospective dataset, implantation
above the CARA-visualized CSA was observed to be associated with different rates of
Permanent Pacemaker Implantation (11.2% vs. 33.9%).
• CSP Cohort (n=175): Evaluated pacing effectiveness relative to the CARA-visualized Left
Bundle Branch (LBBP). Pacing at sites identified by CARA as the LBBP was associated with
improved cardiac function (Mean LVEF improvement +11.2%) compared to non-specific
septal pacing (+0.3%).
No device-related adverse events were identified in the retrospective evaluation.
Conclusions
Based on the intended use, technological characteristics, and performance data presented in this
submission, the CARA System has been demonstrated to be as safe and effective as the predicate
device, Cydar EV (K212442). The subject and predicate devices share a similar intended use, operate
under the same regulatory classification, and utilize comparable CT-based anatomical modeling and
fluoroscopic overlay principles.
Any technological differences, including anatomical specialization and algorithm implementation, do
not alter the fundamental mode of operation and do not raise new questions of safety or
effectiveness.
Accordingly, the CARA System is substantially equivalent to the Cydar EV device in accordance with
21 CFR 807.92.
Confidential