May 29, 2026
HistoSonics, Inc.
LeeAnne Swiridow
Director, Regulatory Affairs
16305 36th Avenue N
Suite 300
Plymouth, Minnesota 55446
Re: K252947
Trade/Device Name: HistoSonics® Planning Tool
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QTZ
Dated: April 25, 2026
Received: April 27, 2026
Dear LeeAnne Swiridow:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.05
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK252947 - LeeAnne Swiridow Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact theK252947 - LeeAnne Swiridow Page 3
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
for
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D
Assistant Director, Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureK252947
HistoSonics® Planning Tool Traditional 510(k)
510(k) Summary
HistoSonics, Inc.
Traditional 510(k)
HistoSonics® Planning Tool
1. Submitter
510(k) Submitter:
HistoSonics, Inc.
16305 36th Avenue N, Suite 300
Plymouth, MN 55446 U.S.A.
Contact Person:
LeeAnne Swiridow
Director of Regulatory Affairs
Phone: 612-803-8508
Fax: 734-929-9020
Email: leeanne.swiridow@histosonics.com
Date Prepared: 27 May 2026
2. Subject Device
Trade Name: HistoSonics® Planning Tool
Regulation Number: 21 CFR Part 892.2050
Regulation Description: Medical image management and processing system
Product code: QTZ
Classification Name: System, Image Processing, Radiological
Regulatory Class: II
Special Controls: Compliance with Voluntary Standards:
(1) Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM)
Standard
3. Predicate Device
Device Name: Emprint Visualization System
510(k): K192038
Device Common Name: DICOM Viewer
Regulation Number: 21 CFR Part 892.2050
Regulatory Description: Medical image management and processing system
Product code: LLZ
Classification Name: System, Image Processing, Radiological
Manufacturer: Covidien llc
HistoSonics, Inc. Page 1 of 8HistoSonics® Planning Tool Traditional 510(k)
4. Indications for Use
The HistoSonics Planning Tool is a stand-alone software product that allows physicians to
visualize and compare CT and MRI imaging data. The display, annotation, and volume
rendering of medical images aids in histotripsy procedures conducted using HistoSonics
Histotripsy Systems. The software is not intended for diagnosis. The software is used to
evaluate images in the region of interest for patients deemed suitable for histotripsy by the
treating physician.
5. Device Description
The HistoSonics Planning Tool is a specialized software application that assists physicians in
planning histotripsy procedures to be completed using the HistoSonics Edison® System
(histotripsy system, K241902). The HistoSonics Planning Tool imports and displays MR or CT
studies and allows the user to simulate the patient’s position (orientation) for the
procedure, along with the placement of the treatment head and reservoir. Physicians use
the HistoSonics Planning Tool to localize the target, define the planned treatment volume,
and determine the optimal acoustic pathway within the physical constraints of the setup.
The HistoSonics Planning Tool and the histotripsy system do not interact or share data.
The HistoSonics Planning Tool overlays simulated treatment planning elements onto the
imported imaging studies, allowing physicians to check whether the target is within the
treatment range of the system and whether there is excessive blockage within the acoustic
field that would prevent treatment.
The HistoSonics Planning Tool also helps assess setup feasibility by identifying potential
limitations, such as when the physical space required for the treatment head, reservoir, and
patient positioning would result in unavoidable collisions or prevent the system from being
configured as required to reach the target.
Using the HistoSonics Planning Tool enables the treating physician to assess patient
positioning, treatment head selection, acoustic pathway and help assess whether a tumor is
viable for histotripsy treatment in advance of the histotripsy procedure. Compared to
histotripsy procedures where the HistoSonics Planning Tool is not used, utilizing the
HistoSonics Planning Tool to determine these key aspects of the procedure workflow in
advance of the patient being treated has the potential to reduce the overall time the
patient is in the procedure room/under anesthetic.
HistoSonics, Inc. Page 2 of 8HistoSonics® Planning Tool Traditional 510(k)
6. Summary of Characteristics Compared to Predicate Devices
The HistoSonics Planning Tool is a stand-along software product (SaMD), DICOM (Digital
Imaging and Communications in Medicine) image viewer which incorporates histotripsy
related overlays for procedure planning purposes. It can be installed either on a Windows
based laptop computer or accessed through a secure cloud-based platform. Like the
predicate, the HistoSonics Planning Tool is an image processing tool that aids in procedure
planning for a focal therapy device. It relies on the same principle of operation and
fundamental technology and has similar performance characteristics as the predicate
device, which differ only due to the underlaying technology (histotripsy vs microwave
ablation).
As with the predicate (and as it relates to the related Emprint™ Ablation System), the
HistoSonics Planning Tool imports DICOM data from CT and MR scanners and can display
the images in standard axial, coronal, or sagittal views and render the images in 3-D views.
The HistoSonics Planning Tool principles of operation allows the user to import multiple
DICOM compatible CT and MR image sets, render them into 3-D and compare them. The
software also provides tools to mark and measure anatomical features and to overlay the
anticipated histotripsy acoustic pathway as defined by the HistoSonics Edison® System
(K241902).
The primary technological difference between the subject and predicate devices is the
ability of the subject device to allow for automatic segmentation of key organs as selected
by the user. This feature is designed to allow for visualization of key structures which may
be in the acoustic pathway.
Emprint Visualization Application
HistoSonics Planning Tool
Characteristic (Predicate Device)
(Subject Device)
K192038
Product Name Emprint™ Visualization Application HistoSonics® Planning Tool
Device Classification Class II Same
FDA Product Code LLZ (21 CFR Part 892.2050) QTZ (21 CFR Part 892.2050)
HistoSonics, Inc. Page 3 of 8HistoSonics® Planning Tool Traditional 510(k)
Emprint Visualization Application
HistoSonics Planning Tool
Characteristic (Predicate Device)
(Subject Device)
K192038
Similar – The indications for use
reflect the therapeutic device for
which the subject device serves as
a planning aid.
The HistoSonics Planning Tool is a
The Emprint™ Visualization Application
stand-alone software product that
is a stand-alone software product that
allows physicians to visualize and
allows physicians to visualize and
compare CT and MRI imaging data.
compare CT and MRI imaging data. The
The display, annotation, and
Indication for Use display, annotation, and volume
volume rendering of medical
rendering of medical images aids in
images aids in histotripsy
ablation procedures conducted using
procedures conducted using
Emprint™ ablation systems. The
HistoSonics Histotripsy Systems.
software is not intended for diagnosis.
The software is not intended for
diagnosis. The software is used to
evaluate images in the region of
interest for patients deemed
suitable for histotripsy by the
treating physician.
Use Environment Professional Healthcare Environment Similar. The HistoSonics Planning
- Local Laptop application Tool operates in a professional
healthcare environment and allows
for a local laptop installation or use
in a cloud-based environment.
Software Version 2.0 1.0 – This is the initial release of
the HistoSonics Planning Tool.
Software Features
Import DICOM Allowed Same
Select anatomical Allowed Same
features
Measure and Mark Allowed Same
anatomical features,
including annotation
Overlay and position Included Same
virtual device images
Compare imported 2 images can be compared At least 3 series can be compared
images simultaneously
Export of plans to Allowed Not incorporated
patient record
HistoSonics, Inc. Page 4 of 8HistoSonics® Planning Tool Traditional 510(k)
The minor technological differences between the subject and predicate device do not raise
any different questions of safety and effectiveness and the subject device is as safe and
effective as the predicate devices. In conclusion, the HistoSonics Planning Tool under
review is substantially equivalent to the predicate device.
7. Performance Data
Extensive software testing was conducted for the SaMD product and included both software
subsystem verification and system-level validation. Subsystem testing included unit and
integration testing, while system-level validation was conducted to fully evaluate the
performance of the application’s user interface.
Performance testing demonstrated the HistoSonics Planning Tool’s compliance with the
following international standards:
1)International Standard IEC 62304:2015, Medical Device Software – Software Life Cycle
Processes
2) NEMA PS 3.1-3.20:2024e, Digital Imaging and COmmunications in Medicine (DICOM)
7.1. Machine Learning Segmentation Model
7.1.1. Model Description
The HistoSonics Planning Tool includes algorithms to segment the liver, kidney, lungs,
ribs, and skin in MRI and CT images to provide insights used for planning histotripsy
procedures including patient setup and planning simulation. All of the segmentation
models, except skin, were developed using machine-learning. The models are static
when implemented into the HistoSonics Planning Tool; the device does not incorporate
adaptive machine-learning.
7.1.2. Specifications of the Training Dataset
The overall training dataset was sourced from six publicly available datasets and one
proprietary dataset representing over 30 institutions across the United States, Europe
and China. Based on the available data, the six public datasets comprised a combined
total of over 3000 scans, with an approximate 6:1 CT to MR ratio. Imaging was performed
across more than 22 scanner models from Philips, Siemens, GE, and Toshiba/Canon. Scan
parameters included 1.5T and 3.0T field strengths for MR acquisitions and 120 kVp tube
voltage for CT acquisitions and contrast utilization varied by dataset. Patient age across
the combined datasets ranged from 14 to 100 years and gender was approximately a 2:1
male to female ratio, when reported. The datasets included patients with oncological
disease, patients undergoing routine cancer screening, healthy subjects, and patients
with unknown pathology status.
HistoSonics, Inc. Page 5 of 8HistoSonics® Planning Tool Traditional 510(k)
7.1.3. Validation Data Description
The dataset for evaluation was compiled from two publicly available datasets, CRLM and
CirrMRI600+, and a proprietary dataset owned by HistoSonics. In the selection of data
taken from each dataset, a balance between sex and modalities was applied, and all age
groups are represented. The z-spacing of the volumes was required to be at least 3mm or
better. This dataset is independent of the training data and was not used to develop the
Planning Tool’s segmentation algorithms. The datasets are summarized below.
The CLRM dataset includes a total 197 patients, with a mean age of 61 years (ranging
from 30 to 88), and a gender distribution of 117 males and 59 females. For the purposes
of model evaluation, a selected subset of 10 patients was used, evenly split between
males and females (5 each), with a mean age of 56 years (range: 33–85). The data was
collected from one facility from 1991 to 1995 and the Lightspeed 16 and VCT models
from GE Healthcare were utilized. Clinically, 58% of the total dataset had multiple
metastases, with maximal tumor size averaging 3.5 cm (±2.6 cm). The median percentage
of necrosis was 30% (ranging from 0 to 90%), and the median percentage of fibrosis was
10% (ranging from 0 to 100%).
The CirrMRI600+ dataset comprises 339 patients, with a mean age of 60 years (range:
20–92), and a gender distribution of 204 males and 133 females. For the purposes of
model evaluation, 10 patients were selected, balanced between genders (5 male, 5
female), with a mean age of 53 years (range: 24–80). Imaging was performed at one
Turkish site using Philips (1.5T and 3T) and Siemens (1.5T) scanners. The overall dataset
includes both healthy subjects and those with cirrhosis, covering a spectrum from mild
fibrosis to advanced disease. T1-weighted images were acquired using gradient echo
techniques, mostly in the post-contrast portal venous phase.
The proprietary HistoSonics Dataset includes a total patient population of 55 patients,
ages 36-81 (Mean 61) with a mix of HCC tumors and liver metastasis and includes
patients who were not ultimately enrolled in the #HOPE4LIVER study. Sex distribution is
unknown, but was 50/50 in the study. The data acquisition occurred at 10 sites in the US
and Europe using various MR and CT scanners (Imaging parameters: MR - T1w or T2w,
with slice thickness <= 3mm; CT-soft tissue window, with slice thickness <= 3mm). Data
was collected between April 2021 and January 2023.
7.1.4. Ground Truth
A consensus ground truth is established through manual segmentation of CT and MRI
scans from 78 scans. Three sets of independent annotations were performed by trained
annotators and overseen by radiologists. The three sets of annotations were merged
HistoSonics, Inc. Page 6 of 8HistoSonics® Planning Tool Traditional 510(k)
with the STAPLE algorithm (Warfield et al. 2004) into one ground truth annotation,
against which the evaluations were performed.
7.1.5. Statistical Analysis
Ground Truth Validation: Using the Dice coefficient is validated through comparison with
segmentations from three annotators. Statistical analysis indicated no significant
discrepancies between these individual segmentations and the consensus ground truth,
thereby substantiating the consistency of the annotations and the reliability of the
ground truth. Each segmentation model in this category (Liver, Kidney and Lung)
exceeded the acceptance criteria of dice score 70% or higher in 70% of the cases (Mean
93%, 89% and 92% respectively).
Geometric comparison of Planning Tool with Ground Truth: An evaluation of Planning
Tool’s automated segmentations were conducted by comparing them to the ground
truth, utilizing Dice scores as quantitative measures. The algorithm's performance met
the established criteria. The Rib segmentation model exceeded the acceptance criteria of
being within 5mm of the inter-annotator average surface distance (Mean 92%).
7.1.6. Subgroup Error Analysis:
Subgroup analyses were conducted across variations such as age (24-85), gender (M/F,
50/50) and geographic regions (US and Europe), as well as imaging modality (CT vs MR,
2:1 ratio). The Planning Tool met the criteria for both correlation and relative volume
difference across all subgroups with no statistically relevant differences, demonstrating
robustness and generalizability of the model.
7.2. Conclusions:
The evaluation provides objective evidence supporting the reliability, accuracy, and
reproducibility of the HistoSonics Planning Tool for automated segmentation. Validation
and performance testing demonstrate that the device meets predefined acceptance
criteria for its intended use in clinical workflows. The results support the device’s
suitability for use by qualified healthcare professionals in the assessment of histotripsy
planning. Furthermore, the HistoSonics Planning Tool has been demonstrated to be
substantially equivalent to its predicate device, Emprint Visualization System (K192038),
with respect to intended use, technological characteristics, and performance.
HistoSonics, Inc. Page 7 of 8HistoSonics® Planning Tool Traditional 510(k)
7.3. Pre-clinical/Clinical Study Data:
No safety related risks were identified as a result of the use of the HistoSonics Planning
Tool. The device performance was validated through system level software testing and
therefore, animal studies and clinical studies in human subjects were not required.
7.4. Cybersecurity Compliance Information:
Information demonstrating compliance with section 525B of the FD&C Action per
current “FDA Guidance: Cybersecurity in Medical Devices - Quality System
Considerations and Content of Premarket Submissions” was provided in this submission.
8. Substantial Equivalence Discussion
The HistoSonics Planning Tool under review has the same intended use, indications for use,
principle of operation, and technological characteristics as the predicate device identified in
this submission.
Furthermore, the design verification and validation testing performed, as well as
compliance with the NEMA DICOM Standard (PS 3.1 - 3.20 2024e), demonstrates the
subject device meets defined product specification and intended use. In addition, the minor
technological characteristic differences do not raise any different questions of substantial
equivalence.
Based on the indications for use, technological characteristics, performance testing, and
comparison to the predicate device, the HistoSonics Planning Tool has been shown to be
substantially equivalent to the predicate device identified in this submission.
HistoSonics, Inc. Page 8 of 8