April 30, 2026
Canon Inc.
℅ Saori Sawaki
Business Manager, Regulatory Consultant
Ken Block Consulting LLC
3400 N Central Expy Ste 100-265
RICHARDSON, TX 75080
Re: K252503
Trade/Device Name: Intelligent NR
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.1650
Regulation Name: Image-Intensified Fluoroscopic X-Ray System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: OWB, MQB
Dated: March 30, 2026
Received: March 31, 2026
Dear Saori Sawaki:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK252503 - Saori Sawaki Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K252503 - Saori Sawaki Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Lu Jiang
Lu Jiang, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Diagnostic X-Ray Systems Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K252503
Device Name
Intelligent NR
Indications for Use (Describe)
As a part of the Canon radiography system, the CXDI Control Software when used with a compatible Canon
detector is intended to provide digital image capture, processing, and display for conventional film/screen
radiographic examinations. This device is intended to replace radiographic film/screen systems in all general
purpose diagnostic procedures including specialist areas like intensive care, trauma, and pediatric work.
It is also used for generating fluoroscopic images, when integrated into the X-ray diagnostic systems, to replace
the spot-film devices and the X-ray image intensifiers.
As part of the CXDI Control Software, the Intelligent NR utilizes artificial intelligence based algorithms to
reduce noise in fluoroscopic images.
Not intended for mammography applications.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(k) Summary
K252503
Applicant/ Sponsor: Canon Inc.
30-2, Shimomaruko 3-chome Ohta-Ku, Tokyo 146-8501, Japan
Saori Sawaki, Business Manager Mr. Masahiro Abe
Contact Person: Ken Block Consulting, LLC General Manager
3400 N Central Expy., Suite 100-265, TEL: 81-3-3758-2111
Richardson, TX 75080 USA FAX: 81-44-739-6695
(972)480-9554 abe.masahiro141@mail.canon
sawaki@kenblockconsulting.com
Subject Device Manufacturer: Canon Inc.
Trade Name: Intelligent NR
Classification Name: Image-intensified fluoroscopic x-ray system
Classification Product Code: OWB
Subsequent Product Codes: MQB
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.1650
Regulation Name: Image-intensified fluoroscopic x-ray system
Class: II
Predicate Device: Clearance: K232298
Manufacturer: Canon Inc.
Trade Name: DIGITAL RADIOGRAPHY CXDI-RF Wireless B1
Classification Name: Image-intensified fluoroscopic x-ray system
Classification Product Code: OWB
Subsequent Product Codes: MQB
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.1650
Regulation Name: Image-intensified fluoroscopic x-ray system
Class: II
Reference Device: Clearance: K212269
Manufacturer: Canon Inc.
Trade Name: Intelligent NR
Classification Name: Solid state x-ray imager (flat panel/digital imager)
Classification Product Code: MQB
Regulation: 21 CFR 892.1680, Stationary x-ray system
Class: II
Device The Intelligent NR (Intelligent Noise Reduction) function is a part of the CXDI
Description: Control Software for the Canon detectors (with version 3.13 of the CXDI Control
Software) that makes use of the Intelligent NR function to reduce noise for X-ray
images taken using the Canon detectors. The Intelligent NR function was
developed using machine-learning and trained by using an existing clinical image
database to learn the characteristics of noises and display/create noise reduced
images and videos. The Intelligent NR function does not perform machine learning
after release to users. The CXDI control software, which Intelligent NR is a part
510(k) Summary Page 1 of 4of, provides system control, controls GUI on the monitor, and processes images.
The Intelligent NR function works on a PC and displays to a monitor. The
Intelligent NR function is used in conjunction with the cleared Canon detectors
compatible with CXDI Control Software V3.13. The firmware within compatible
Canon detectors to be used with this device is unchanged, and no firmware update
is necessary for compatibility with Intelligent NR.
Indications for As a part of the Canon radiography system, the CXDI Control Software when
Use: used with a compatible Canon detector is intended to provide digital image
capture, processing, and display for conventional film/screen radiographic
examinations. This device is intended to replace radiographic film/screen systems
in all general purpose diagnostic procedures including specialist areas like
intensive care, trauma, and pediatric work.
It is also used for generating fluoroscopic images, when integrated into the X-ray
diagnostic systems, to replace the spot-film devices and the X-ray image
intensifiers.
As part of the CXDI Control Software, the Intelligent NR utilizes artificial
intelligence based algorithms to reduce noise in fluoroscopic images.
Not intended for mammography applications.
The Indications for Use statement for the proposed device differs slightly from
Summary of
Technological that of the predicate device. This distinction is due to the predicate device being a
Characteristics: sensor detector unit, whereas the proposed device is software designed to operate
with a compatible Canon sensor detector, such as the predicate device.
Additionally, the intended use of the subject software function has been added to
the Indications for Use Statement to reflect the core purpose of this submission,
which is supported by the performance testing conducted. Despite these
differences, the intended use and clinical application of both devices are the same.
The Intelligent NR for dynamic imaging is a newly implemented optional
fluoroscopy imaging function in the proposed device. This function utilizes a
machine learning algorithm to automatically reduce image noise in fluoroscopy
data. The same algorithm was previously used in the reference device to reduce
noise in radiology images.
The addition of the Intelligent NR function has been thoroughly evaluated and
verified through validation activities. These assessments support the conclusion of
substantial equivalence and demonstrate that the differences between the proposed
and predicate devices do not introduce new questions regarding safety or
effectiveness.
510(k) Summary Page 2 of 4Proposed Device Predicate Device Reference Device
DIGITAL RADIOGRAPHY CXDI-
Trade Name Intelligent NR Intelligent NR
RF Wireless B1
510(k) Submitter Canon Inc. Canon, Inc. Canon Inc.
[Number] [K232298] [K212269]
As a part of the Canon radiography DIGITAL RADIOGRAPHY CXDI- As a part of the Canon radiography
system, the CXDI Control Software when RF Wireless B1 is indicated for use system, the CXDI Control Software
used with a compatible Canon detector is in generating radiographic images of when used with a compatible Canon
intended to provide digital image capture, human anatomy to replace the detector is intended to provide
processing, and display for conventional
radiographic film/screen systems in digital image capture, processing,
film/screen radiographic examinations.
This device is intended to replace all general purpose diagnostic and display for conventional
radiographic film/screen systems in all procedures. It is also used for film/screen radiographic
general purpose diagnostic procedures generating fluoroscopic images, examinations. This device is
including specialist areas like intensive when integrated into the X-ray intended to replace radiographic
care, trauma, and pediatric work.
Indication for Use diagnostic systems, to replace the film/screen systems in all general
It is also used for generating fluoroscopic
images, when integrated into the X-ray spot-film devices and the X-ray purpose diagnostic procedures
diagnostic systems, to replace the spot- image intensifiers. Not intended for including specialist areas like
film devices and the X-ray image mammography applications. intensive care, trauma, and pediatric
intensifiers. work. This device is not intended for
As part of the CXDI Control Software,
fluoroscopic, angiographic, or
the Intelligent NR utilizes artificial
mammography applications.
intelligence based algorithms to reduce
noise in fluoroscopic images.
Not intended for mammography
applications.
Application /
Fluoroscopy and General Radiology Fluoroscopy and General Radiology General Radiology
Intended Use
Software / Version CXDI Control Software V3.13 CXDI Control Software V3.11 CXDI Control Software V3.10
Optional Radiology Free Rotating, Scatter Correction, Free Rotating, Scatter Correction, Free Rotating, Scatter Correction,
Image Processing Enhancement Control, Intelligent NR Enhancement Control Enhancement Control, Intelligent
Functions function, One Shot Long Length NR function, One Shot Long Length
Imaging, Multiple Shot One exposure Imaging, Multiple Shot One
per image exposure per image
Optional
Scatter Correction
Fluoroscopy Scatter Correction N/A
Intelligent NR for Dynamic Imaging
Imaging Function
Tests were performed on the CXDI Control Software, including the Intelligent NR
function, and demonstrated that the device is safe and effective, performs
Summary of
comparably to the predicate device, and is substantially equivalent to the predicate
Non-Clinical/
and reference devices. Tests included verification/validation testing to internal
Clinical Test
software specifications and image comparisons involving flat panel display images
Data:
with noises reduced by the Intelligent NR, comprising qualitative assessments of
spatial resolution, contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR), and a reader imaging performance
evaluation. The contrast transfer function (CTF) with Intelligent NR showed no
change. Contrast was maintained, and no degradation in spatial resolution was
observed. The CNR with Intelligent NR was improved, measuring approximately
1.1 to 1.5 times higher than that of the conventional NR. The reader evaluation was
performed by two independent physicians, each of whom assessed archived
clinical cases processed with both the conventional noise-reduction function and
510(k) Summary Page 3 of 4Intelligent NR. The readers confirmed that image quality improved in descending
order of processing intensity, and in all cases, images processed with Intelligent NR
were judged superior to those processed with conventional NR. The risks and
hazardous impacts of the device modification were analyzed by FMEA
methodology. The specific risk control and protective measures to mitigate the risks
from the modification were reviewed and implemented as part of product design.
The overall assessment concluded that all identified risks and hazardous conditions
were successfully mitigated and accepted. The proposed Intelligent NR
demonstrated compliance with IEC 62304:2015 and has cybersecurity controls in
place. Together, these verification/validation activities successfully demonstrated
that the Intelligent NR correctly performs as designed, has been validated for its
intended use, and raises no new questions regarding either safety or effectiveness
when compared to the predicate device. Therefore, the verification/validation testing
conducted supports a determination of substantial equivalence for the Intelligent NR.
As reported in prior submissions to FDA, the compatible detectors comply with the
U.S. Performance Standard for radiographic equipment and with relevant voluntary
safety standards for Electrical Safety and Electromagnetic Compatibility testing,
specifically IEC standards 60601-1, 60601-1-2, 60601-1-3, and 60601-2-32.
Canon Inc. considers the Intelligent NR to be substantially equivalent to the
p redicate device listed above. This conclusion is based on the similarities in
Conclusion:
application/intended use, principles of operation, functional design, and
established medical use.
510(k) Summary Page 4 of 4