June 2, 2026
Tyto Care Ltd.
Stella Raizelman Perry
RA&QA Director
14 Beni Gaon Street
Netanya,
Israel
Re: K252844
Trade/Device Name: Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection (with PCCP)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 868.1900
Regulation Name: Diagnostic Pulmonary-Function Interpretation Calculator
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: PHZ
Dated: April 29, 2026
Received: April 29, 2026
Dear Stella Raizelman Perry:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.K252844 - Stella Raizelman Perry Page 2
FDA's substantial equivalence determination also included the review and clearance of your Predetermined
Change Control Plan (PCCP). Under section 515C(b)(1) of the Act, a new premarket notification is not
required for a change to a device cleared under section 510(k) of the Act, if such change is consistent with an
established PCCP granted pursuant to section 515C(b)(2) of the Act. Under 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3), a new
premarket notification is required if there is a major change or modification in the intended use of a device,
or if there is a change or modification in a device that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of
the device, e.g., a significant change or modification in design, material, chemical composition, energy
source, or manufacturing process. Accordingly, if deviations from the established PCCP result in a major
change or modification in the intended use of the device, or result in a change or modification in the device
that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, then a new premarket notification
would be required consistent with section 515C(b)(1) of the Act and 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3). Failure to submit
such a premarket submission would constitute adulteration and misbranding under sections 501(f)(1)(B) and
502(o) of the Act, respectively.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on theseK252844 - Stella Raizelman Perry Page 3
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
B inoy J. Digitally signed by Binoy
J. Mathews -S
Mathews -S Date: 2026.06.02 10:44:23
-04'00'
For
Rachana Visaria
Assistant Director
DHT1C: Division of Anesthesia,
Respiratory, and Sleep Devices
OHT1: Office of Ophthalmic, Anesthesia,
Respiratory, ENT, and Dental Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K252844
Device Name
Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection (with PCCP)
Indications for Use (Describe)
The Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection (with PCCP) is an over-the-counter artificial intelligence (AI) enabled decision
support software system used in the evaluation of lung sounds in adults and pediatrics (2 years and older). It automatically
analyzes the acoustic signal of the lung as recorded by the FDA cleared compatible Tyto Stethoscope and identifies
recordings where a specific abnormal lung sound suggestive of “Wheeze” is suspected. It is not intended to detect other
abnormal or normal lung sounds. A licensed health care professional’s advice is required to understand the meaning of the
Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection result. Healthcare providers should consider the device result in conjunction with
recording and other relevant patient data.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(k) Summary
Submission Number K252844
Submitter Name and Tyto Care Ltd.
Address: 14 Beni Gaon Street Netanya, Israel,
4250803
Contact Person: Stella Raizelman Perry RA & QA
Director
Email: stellar@tytocare.com
Phone Number: +972 72-2210750
Fax Number: +972 72-2210752
Establishment 3012678246
Registration
Number:
Date Prepared: April 28, 2026
Device Trade Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection (with PCCP)
Name(s):
Device Common Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection (with PCCP)
Name:
Classification: Name: Diagnostic pulmonary-function interpretation
calculator
Product code: PHZ
Regulation No: 21 CFR 868.1900
Class: II
Panel: Anesthesiology
Predicate Device(s):
Device name 510(k) No. Date of Clearance
Tyto Insights for Wheeze K232237 December 13, 2023
Detection
Reference Device(s):
Device name 510(k) No. Date of Clearance
Tyto Insights for K243567 April 07, 2025
Rhonchi Detection
The reference device is cited to demonstrate consistency of Predetermined Change
Control Plan (PCCP) elements with the subject device.
1Intended use / indication for use statement
TheTyto Insights for Wheeze Detection (with PCCP) is an over-the-counter artificial
intelligence (AI) enabled decision support software system used in the evaluation of lung sounds
in adults and pediatrics (2 years and older). It automatically analyzes the acoustic signal of the
lung as recorded by the FDA cleared compatible Tyto Stethoscope and identifies recordings
where a specific abnormal lung sound suggestive of “Wheeze” is suspected. It is not intended to
detect other abnormal or normal lung sounds. A licensed health care professional’s advice is
required to understand the meaning of the Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection result. Healthcare
providers should consider the device result in conjunction with recording and other relevant
patient data.
Device description
The Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection is a web-based (AI) enabled software system designed
to aid in the clinical assessment of lungs auscultation sound data by analyzing recorded lung
sounds to determine whether a Wheeze is detected within the recorded sound data.
The Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection Software is intended to process recordings from the
FDA-cleared compatible Tyto Stethoscope (Tyto Stethoscope, K181612). The acquisition of the
acoustic data (recordings) is carried out by a professional user in a clinical environment or
by a lay- user in a non-medical environment, in compliance with the labeling of the Tyto
Stethoscope. The system is composed of the following sub-systems:
1. The Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection Application Server (APS) communicates
with the Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection Algorithm Server (ALS) and
implements an application programming interface (API) for communication with
the telehealth server.
2. The Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection Algorithm Server (ALS) receives an
audio file as input and returns an analysis result of positive or negative regarding
whether a wheeze was detected as output.
3. The Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection Web Server (WBS) provides a graphic
indication whether a wheeze is detected in the recording. It can be utilized both in
patient and clinician side.
All the software subsystems (servers and storage) are hosted in the cloud and communicate
through IP network.
2The recordings from the compatible Tyto Stethoscope (K181612) are sent by the third-party point of
care app to the clinician app through the telehealth server. The telehealth server sends the set of lung
sound recordings to the Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection web server using its dedicated API. The
AI enabled algorithm runs automatically and returns a response for each audio file with the indication
of wheeze to the telehealth server which sends a response to both the clinician side and the patient
side.
3Substantial Equivalence to Predicate Devices
The following table compares Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection (with PCCP) to the predicate and reference devices.
Table 1. Substantial Equivalence Summary
Device Predicate Device Reference Device Summary
Device Name Tyto Insights for Wheeze Tyto Insights for Wheeze Tyto Insights for Rhonchi NA
Detection (with PCCP) Detection Detection
Device Tyto Care Ltd. Tyto Care Ltd. Tyto Care Ltd. Same
Manufacturer
510(k) Number K252844 K232237 K243567 NA
Device Class Class II Class II Class II Same
Review Panel Anesthesiology Anesthesiology Anesthesiology Same
Product code PHZ PHZ PHZ Same
Regulation number 21 CFR 868.1900 21 CFR 868.1900 21 CFR 868.1900 Same
Device Abnormal breath sound Abnormal breath sound Abnormal breath sound Same
Classification Name device device device
4Device Predicate Device Reference Device Summary
Intended use and The “Tyto Insights for The “Tyto Insights for The Tyto Insights for Same as the predicate
indication for use Wheeze Detection” is an Wheeze Detection” is an Rhonchi Detection is a device.
over-the-counter artificial over-the-counter artificial
prescription-use artificial
intelligence (AI) enabled intelligence (AI) enabled
intelligence (AI) enabled
decision support software decision support software
decision support software
system used in the system used in the
system used in the
evaluation of lung sounds evaluation of lung sounds
in adults and pediatrics (2 in adults and pediatrics (2 evaluation of lung sounds
years and older). It years and older). It in adults and pediatrics (2
automatically analyzes the automatically analyzes the years and older). It
acoustic signal of the lung acoustic signal of the lung
automatically analyzes the
as recorded by the FDA as recorded by the FDA
acoustic signal of the lung
cleared compatible Tyto cleared compatible Tyto
as recorded by the FDA
Stethoscope and identifies Stethoscope and identifies
recordings where a recordings where a 510k cleared compatible
specific abnormal lung specific abnormal lung Tyto Stethoscope and
sound suggestive of sound suggestive of identifies recordings
“Wheeze” is suspected. It “Wheeze” is suspected. It
where a specific abnormal
is not intended to detect is not intended to detect
lung sound suggestive of
other abnormal or normal other abnormal or normal
“Rhonchi” is suspected. It
lung sounds. A licensed lung sounds. A licensed
is not intended to detect
health care professional’s health care professional’s
other abnormal or normal
advice is required to advice is required to
lung sounds. A licensed
understand the meaning understand the meaning
health care professional’s
of the Tyto Insights for of the Tyto Insights for
advice is required to
Wheeze Detection result. Wheeze Detection result.
understand the meaning of
Healthcare providers Healthcare providers
the Tyto Insights for
should consider the should consider the
Rhonchi Detection result.
device result in device result in
Healthcare providers should
conjunction with conjunction with
consider the device result in
recording and other recording and other
conjunction with recording
relevant patient data. relevant patient data.
5Device Predicate Device Reference Device Summary
and other relevant patient
data.
Type of use Over-The-Counter Use Over-The-Counter Use Prescription use Same as the predicate
device
Intended users Professional users and lay Professional users and lay Professional users and lay Same
users (18-65 years old). users (18-65 years old). users (18-65 years old).
Intended patient Patients of 2 years and Patients of 2 years and Patients of 2 years and Same
population older older older
Intended Non-clinical (home) and Non-clinical (home) and Non-clinical (home) and Same
environment clinical clinical clinical
Input Lung sounds recorded by Lung sounds recorded by Lung sounds recorded by Same
compatible Tyto compatible Tyto compatible Tyto
Stethoscope (K181612) Stethoscope (K181612) Stethoscope (K181612)
Signal length Recordings are Recordings are Recordings are processed Same
processed in segments of processed in segments of in segments of up to 12
up to 12 seconds while up to 12 seconds while seconds while signals
signals shorter than 6 signals shorter than 6 shorter than 6 seconds will
seconds will not be seconds will not be not be
processed. Processed. Processed.
Algorithm Machine learning based Machine learning based Machine learning based Same as the predicate
(Neural network) (Neural network) (Neural network) device.
Output  Positive (wheeze  Positive (wheeze  Positive (Rhonchi Same as the predicate
suspected), suspected), suspected), device.
 Negative (Wheeze not  Negative (Wheeze not  Negative (Rhonchi not
suspected), suspected), suspected),
 The Tyto Insights for  The Tyto Insights for  The Tyto Insights for
Wheeze Detection was Wheeze Detection was Rhonchi Detection was
6Device Predicate Device Reference Device Summary
not able to analyze the not able to analyze the not able to analyze the
recording recording recording
Performance AUC :0.96 (0.95– 0.98) AUC :0.96 (0.95– 0.98) AUC: 0.96 (0.92–0.98) Same as the predicate.
Estimate two-sided 95% Estimate two-sided 95% Estimate two-sided 95%
Cl): Cl): Cl):
Sensitivity: 0.55 [0.43 – Sensitivity: 0.55 [0.43 – Sensitivity: 0.60 (0.50-
0.65] 0.65] 0.69)
Specificity: 0.99 [0.99 – Specificity: 0.99 [0.99 – Specificity: 0.99 (0.97 -
1.00] 1.00] 1.00)
User interface Web view Web view Web view Same
Predetermined Includes PCCP (submitted Not included Includes FDA authorized The predicate device
Change Control for FDA review in this PCCP didn’t include PCCP.
plan (PCCP) 510(k)) The types of
modifications, data
management practices,
re-training practices,
performance evaluation
methods, and update
procedures for the subject
device are consistent with
those of the reference
device.
7The intended use of the subject device is identical to that of the predicate device. The
purpose of this 510(k) submission is to obtain FDA’s review and authorization of a
Predetermined Change Control Plan (PCCP) for the subject device. The only additional
difference from the predicate device is a minor software update in which third-party
libraries were updated to address known vulnerabilities, consistent with Tyto Care’s
software development lifecycle and cybersecurity procedures. The subject device
maintains the same technological characteristics as the predicate device. This minor
software update does not alter these characteristics and does not raise new questions of
safety or effectiveness.
Standards Conformance:
 ANSI AAMI ISO 14971:2019, Medical devices - Application of risk management to
medical devices
 ANSI AAMI IEC 62304:2006/A1:2016, Medical device software - Software life cycle
processes
 ISO 15223-1 Fourth edition 2021-07, Medical devices - Symbols to be used with
information to be supplied by the manufacturer - Part 1: General requirements.
 ANSI AAMI IEC 62366-1:2015+AMD1:2020 (Consolidated Text) Medical devices
Part 1: Application of usability engineering to medical device.
Performance evaluation:
 SW verification and validation - The software including both custom developed
software and OTS software, have been verified and validated and have been
demonstrated to be safe and effective for its intended use. The software documentation
level is basic per Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software Functions,
Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff, dated June 14, 2023.
All required items related to software as required by FDA guidance for Basic
Documentation Level have been included in this submission.
 Cybersecurity- all the applicable information to reflect effective cybersecurity
management and to address the FDA’s recommendations described in Cybersecurity
in Medical Devices: Refuse to Accept Policy for Cyber Devices and Related Systems
Under Section 524B of the FD&C Act, issue date March 2023 , Cybersecurity in
8Medical Devices: Quality System Considerations and Content of Premarket
Submissions, issue date February 2026 and in the other FDA’s applicable policies
have been included in this submission.
 Performance evaluation - The minor software update did not impact device
performance. The clinical validation previously conducted for the predicate device
remains applicable to the subject device. Accordingly, no additional performance
validation was required.
 Human factors validation - The minor software update did not introduce any
modifications to the user interface, did not create new critical tasks, and did not affect
existing critical tasks. Therefore, no additional human factors validation was
necessary. The evaluations conducted for the predicate device remain fully applicable
to the subject device.
Predetermined Change Control Plan (PCCP)
Predetermined Change Control Plan (PCCP) that specifies anticipated modifications to the Tyto
Insights for Wheeze detection device is included in this submission. The same type of software
modifications, data management practices, re-training practices, performance evaluation methods, and
update procedures to establish substantial equivalence as were applied for the Tyto Insights for
Rhonchi Detection (K243567), the reference device, were followed.
The table below includes a description of the software modifications that can be made to the
algorithms in the device subject to the authorized PCCP as well as a description of the test methods
that will be used to support substantial equivalence determination.
Detailed list of changes Test Methods Acceptance criteria to establish
substantial equivalence
1. Modifications related to  Software verification  Software verification and
performance and validation validation meet the
specifications  Clinical performance requirements
enhancement: Validation.  Clinical performance
Validation:
Re-training of the ML model Retrospective study on
with additional data to dataset of the compatible Stand alone:
improve the device clinical Tyto Stethoscope Accuracy of device – Sensitivity,
performance, as measured by recordings
Specificity, PPV, NPV
sensitivity and specificity, that are representative of
compared to the most the intended recorded Co-Primary endpoints:
recently validated and patient population (data  Sensitivity of the modified
released version of the will be acquired by the device calculated on the new
device, while maintaining the real-world use of the Tyto validation dataset.
same type and range of input Stethoscope) . Specificity of the modified
signal. device calculated on the new
validation dataset.
9Success criteria:
The modification will be
considered successful only if the
lower bound of the 95% confidence
interval for both sensitivity and
specificity is not lower than the
corresponding lower confidence
bounds of the most recently
validated and released version of
the device
Secondary Endpoint
 The PPV and NPV of the newly
trained algorithm compared to
the PPV and the NPV of the
most recently validated and
released version of the device
 Performance of the modified
device (including sensitivity and
specificity) will also be
descriptively evaluated across
the following clinically relevant
subgroups: age group (2–18
years vs. >18 years), gender, and
user type (lay user vs. healthcare
professional) and stethoscope
model (e.g., due to prior
modifications).
2. Modifications related to  Software verification  Software verification and
technical performance and validation validation meet the
specifications.  Verification testing requirements
will be conducted for  Verification testing meets the
Modification of data the improved requirements
preprocessing methodologies computational  Clinical performance
/data augmentation parameters Validation:
methodologies and hyper-  Clinical performance
parameters tuning to improve Validation. Stand-alone:
the technical performance Retrospective study on Accuracy of device – Sensitivity,
characteristics (including dataset of the compatible
Specificity, PPV, NPV
running time, memory Tyto Stethoscope
consumption and CPU recordings Co-Primary endpoints:
utilization). that are representative of  Sensitivity of the modified
These changes are the intended recorded device calculated on the new
implemented without patient population (data validation dataset.
modifications to the core will be acquired by the Specificity of the modified
model architecture, intended real-world use of the Tyto device calculated on the new
use, or output of the device. Stethoscope). validation dataset.
Success criteria:
The modification will be
considered successful only if the
lower bound of the 95% confidence
interval for both sensitivity and
specificity is not lower than the
10corresponding lower confidence
bounds of the most recently
validated and released version of
the device. Meeting both endpoints
is required for the modification to
be declared successfully.
Secondary Endpoint
 The PPV and NPV of the
modified algorithm will be
compared to the PPV and the
NPV of the most recently
validated and released version of
the device.
 Performance of the modified
device will be descriptively
evaluated across the following
clinically relevant subgroups:
age group (2–18 years vs. >18
years), gender, and user type (lay
user vs. healthcare professional)
and stethoscope model (e.g., due
to prior modifications).
3. Modifications related to  Software verification  Software verification and
device input expansion and validation validation meet the
 Clinical performance requirements
Expanding the algorithm to Validation.  Clinical performance
include new sources of the Retrospective study on Validation:
same signal type (different dataset of the compatible
model of FDA compatible Stethoscope recordings Stand-alone:
Stethoscope with equivalent that are representative of Accuracy of device – Sensitivity,
audio acquisition the intended recorded Specificity, PPV, NPV
specifications). patient population (data
Modification is limited to will be acquired by the Co-Primary endpoints:
expanding to electronic real-world use of the  Sensitivity of the modified
stethoscopes that have FDA applicable Stethoscope device calculated on the new
510k clearance (for over-the- models). validation dataset.
counter use) at the time that
 Specificity of the modified
the proposed modification is
device calculated on the new
made.
validation dataset.
Success Criteria:
The modification will be
considered successful only if the
lower bound of the 95% confidence
interval for both sensitivity and
specificity is not lower than the
corresponding lower confidence
bounds of the most recently
validated and released version of
the device. Meeting both endpoints
is required for the modification to
11be declared successfully.
Secondary Endpoint
 The PPV and NPV of the newly
trained algorithm compared to
the most recently validated and
released version of the device
calculated on new validation
dataset.
 Performance of the modified
device (including sensitivity and
specificity )will also be
descriptively evaluated across
the following clinically relevant
subgroups: age group (2–18
years vs. >18 years), gender, user
type (lay user vs. healthcare
professional), and input device.
Subgroup analysis by input
device will include performance
evaluation for each compatible
stethoscope model.
Conclusion
Tyto Insights for Wheeze Detection (with PCCP) has the same intended use, indication for
use and technological characteristics as the predicate device.
The proposed modifications under the PCCP and the minor software differences do not raise
new questions of safety and effectiveness. Thus, we conclude that the Tyto Insights for
Wheeze Detection (with PCCP) is substantially equivalent, i.e., as safe and effective as the
predicate device.
12