January 22, 2026
Perin Health Devices, LLC
℅ Chandler Thames
Quality/Regulatory Consultant
Rook Quality Systems
1155 Mount Vernon Hwy
Suite 800
Dunwoody, Georgia 30338
Re: K252984
Trade/Device Name: Perin Health System (PHD80060-2)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 870.2910
Regulation Name: Radiofrequency Physiological Signal Transmitter And Receiver
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: DRG, DQD, MHX, DQA, DXN, FLL, BZQ
Dated: December 19, 2025
Received: December 19, 2025
Dear Chandler Thames:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.02
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK252984 - Chandler Thames Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K252984 - Chandler Thames Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
JENNIFER W. SHIH -S
Jennifer Kozen
Assistant Director
Division of Cardiac Electrophysiology,
Diagnostics, and Monitoring Devices
Office of Cardiovascular Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALT H AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: 0MB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
Submission Number (if known)
I K252984
Device Name
Perin Health System (PHD80060-2)
I
Indications for Use (Describe)
The Perin Health Platform is a wireless remote monitoring system intended for use by healthcare
professionals for spot check collection of physiological data in healthcare and home settings for
long-term monitoring. The Perin Health Patch can monitor auscultation data of heart and lung
sounds, photoplethysmography waveforms (PPG), oxygen saturation (%SpO2), heart rate,
electrocardiography (ECG), heart rate variability, R-R interval, respiratory rate, skin temperature,
activity detection (including step count), and posture (body position relative to gravity including fall).
The Perin Health System is intended for spot-checking and tracking changes of adult patients in
hospitals, clinics, long-term care, and at home. In home-use environments, the Perin Health Platform
is able to integrate with optional third-party devices for blood pressure, and weight data collection via
the mobile application. The mobile application transmits data from the Health Patch and third party
devices to the cloud and web-based portal for storage, analysis, and review by healthcare
professionals. The Perin Health Platform can include the ability to notify healthcare professionals
when physiological data falls outside set limits or manual trigger by the patient.
The device is intended to provide physiological information for non-critical, adult population.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
1Z! D
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*00 NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
"An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid 0MB number."K252984 510(k) Summary
510(k) Summary for
Perin Health System
Submitter Perin Health Devices, LLC
Address 755 Research Parkway
Suite 530
Oklahoma City, OK 73104
Contact Ian McLane, Chief Technology Officer
Phone: 818-697-8551
Email: ian.mclane@perinhealth.com
Date Prepared: January 22, 2026
Device Perin Health System
Trade Name: Perin Health System
Common Device Name: Transmitters and Receivers, Physiological Signal, Radio
Frequency
Classification Product Code
Regulation Regulation Product Description
Medical Specialty Classification Code
Cardiovascular 21 CFR 870.2910 DRG Radiofrequency physiological
Class II signal transmitter and receiver
Subsequent Product Code
Cardiovascular 21 CFR 870.1025 MHX Monitor, physiological, patient
Class II (with arrhythmia detection or
alarms)
Cardiovascular 21 CFR 870.1875 DQD Stethoscope, electronic
Class II
Cardiovascular 21 CFR 870.2700 DQA Oximeter
Class II
Cardiovascular 21 CFR 870.1130 DXN System, measurement, blood-
Class II pressure, non-invasive
General Hospital 21 CFR 880.2910 FLL Continuous measurement
Class II thermometer
Anesthesiology 21 CFR 868.2375 BZQ Monitor, breathing frequency
Class II
Perin Health System Page 1 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
Primary Predicate Device UbiqVue 2A Multiparameter System
510(k) Number K242018
Secondary Predicate Device Alio Medical Remote Monitoring System
510(k) Number K211365
Predicate for Auscultation Sound Data
Reference Device EKO CORE 500 Digital Stethoscope
510(k) Number K230111
Reference for Auscultation Sounds of the Heart and Lungs
Reference Device Biobeat Platform-2 and BB-613WP Patch
510(k) Number K222010
Reference for Spot-Checking
Product Description
The Perin Health System is a wireless remote patient monitoring platform that enables
healthcare professionals to perform spot-checking and retrospective monitoring of
physiological data from adult patients. The Perin Health System is designed for use in
hospitals, clinics, long-term care facilities, physician offices, and home environments.
The Perin Health System comprises the following components:
1. Perin Health Patch wearable device
2. Perin Health Patient Mobile Application
3. Perin Health Cloud
4. Perin Health Provider Portal
5. Perin Health Inpatient Application
Perin Health System Page 2 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
1. The Perin Health Patch is a chest-worn wearable device that performs scheduled spot-
check measurements of multiple physiological parameters. Unlike continuous
monitoring systems, the Perin Health Patch captures measurements at predetermined
intervals configured by healthcare providers based on clinical need.
The device integrates six primary sensing modalities:
• Auscultation (heart and lung sounds)
• Electrocardiography (1-channel ECG)
• Pulse oximetry via photoplethysmography (PPG)
• Bioimpedance (BioZ) for respiratory monitoring
• Temperature sensing (skin)
• Motion and orientation detection via accelerometer
The combination of these modalities in a small, low-power wearable form allows for
the spot-checking of primary vital signs:
• Heart rate and R-R intervals
• Heart rate variability (HRV) parameters
• ECG waveform data
• Auscultation sound data (heart and lung sounds)
• Respiratory rate
• Pulse (PPG) waveform
• Oxygen saturation (SpO2%)
• Skin temperature
• Fall detection events
• Body posture
• Activity level and step count
The device adheres to the patient’s upper left chest at the second intercostal space
with a medical-grade long-term wear adhesive. The adhesive is placed on the patient-
Perin Health System Page 3 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
facing side of the wearable, with cutouts for the sensors to make direct contact with
the skin. The wearable device is lightweight and semi-flexible, allowing for the device
to conform to the natural curvature of the chest. It is water resistant, allowing for
bathing and normal activities while the patient is wearing the system.
The wearable communicates to the receiving unit (mobile phone) via an encrypted
Bluetooth Low Energy connection. Measurements, all notifications and control
commands, and software updates are transmitted over the BLE connection. The
wearable uses Near Field Communication (NFC) to facilitate the Bluetooth pairing
process with the mobile phone by simply having to tap their phone to the device to
initiate a Bluetooth connection. The wearable device also contains on-board memory
that can store over two weeks of spot-check data. When measurements are taken
and no receiving unit is present, the wearable can store recordings in the onboard
memory. Recordings are stored in a stack, such that at the next connection possibility
between the wearable and the receiving unit, the most recent data will be transmitted
first followed by other measurements in reverse chronological order.
Other key features of the wearable include:
• Customizable recording schedule set by the healthcare provider in their care
program
• Replaceable battery
• Patient-triggered recordings via double-tap
• Signal quality indicators for measurement validation and identification of
noisy measurements
2. The Patient Mobile Application, available on iOS or Android platforms, is intended
exclusively for use in home environments by patients under healthcare provider
supervision. The application serves as a data relay and display interface, allowing the
patient to complete key tasks, including onboarding, device setup, device
communication, and patient-reported data.
The application serves as the primary interface between the Perin Health Patch and the
cloud infrastructure, receiving spot-check measurements from the device and
uploading them for provider review. The application establishes and manages secured
BLE communication with the Health Patch. Given that the Health Patch operates on
provider-configured recording schedules, the application manages data transfer in the
background with minimal patient interaction required. When internet connectivity is
Perin Health System Page 4 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
unavailable, the application stores measurements locally until transmission becomes
possible. The system also manages firmware updates for the Perin Health Patch.
The application integrates with FDA-cleared third-party blood pressure cuff and scale
using BLE and transfers the data to the Cloud System. Healthcare providers determine
which patients require the additional third-party device monitoring as part of their
individualized care programs. The system also allows users to optionally enter manual
data for blood pressure and weight if no third-party device is connected.
Patients are able to review their historical measurement data taken throughout their
monitoring program and their goals and thresholds set by their providers. The patient
can view metrics assigned within their care program:
• Heart Rate and Heart Rate Variability
• Respiratory Rate
• Oxygen Saturation
• Step Count
• Temperature
• Blood Pressure
• Weight
Patients can also select audio segments captured by the device for playback (no
visualization).
The application provides comprehensive patient engagement features. Patients can
complete customized questionnaires with up to 20 questions in various formats, review
educational content delivered through their care programs, and submit non-critical
medical reports to their care team. The reporting feature includes anatomical body
mapping for location-specific symptoms, severity scaling, and photo attachment
capabilities. The application supports secure messaging with care providers, virtual
appointment attendance with waiting room functionality, and comprehensive offline
operation with automatic synchronization upon connectivity restoration.
3. The Perin Health Cloud infrastructure serves as the central hub for data management
and processing. The cloud system receives encrypted spot-check data from relay
systems and manages raw data processing (for Health Patch data only), storage, and
retrieval of physiological measurements for retrospective clinical review.
Perin Health System Page 5 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
Algorithms are run in the cloud to process measurements from the Health Patch and
generate Signal Quality Index, Heart Rate, Heart Rate Variability, Respiratory Rate,
Oxygen Saturation, and Posture.
The alert and notification system enables healthcare professionals to configure multi-
level alerts based on clinical parameters, technical issues, or manual patient triggers.
Clinical alerts are based on provider-configured thresholds that are set in during the
enrollment of a patient in a care program. The system supports complex notification
rules including threshold exceedances, percentage changes, trending patterns, and
consecutive violations. Alerts are displayed to providers for the purpose of highlighting
data during their retrospective review and are not intended to support real-time patient
monitoring or urgent care provider action.
The cloud infrastructure includes comprehensive audit logging of all user actions, data
access, and system events. The system provides API access for integration with
electronic health records with HL7 v2.x, HL7 FHIR R4, and other standard protocols,
enabling bidirectional data exchange with major EHR systems.
4. The web-based Provider Portal enables healthcare professionals to access and
manage patient data and alert statuses remotely through any compatible web browser.
Through the portal, providers can review spot-check measurements and historical
trends, playback audio recordings of auscultation sounds captured by the Patch,
configure individualized care programs, set measurement schedules and alert
thresholds, and communicate with patients through various modalities.
Through the portal, providers can review spot-check measurements with customizable
vital sign charts displaying trends over days, weeks, or months. Advanced visualization
includes waveform analysis for ECG and PPG signals, audio playback for auscultation
recordings, and comprehensive annotation tools. The portal displays signal quality
indicators and out-of-range values with appropriate visual highlighting based on
configured thresholds. The portal also displays patient severity levels
(Low/Medium/High) based on the NEWS2 scoring methodology. Additional clinical
measures, such blood pressure and weight, that are manually input into the EHR can
be read into the Perin Health System and viewed in the Provider Portal using the EHR
interface.
The system employs a structured care program architecture that ensures appropriate
clinical oversight throughout the monitoring process. Healthcare organizations create
standardized care program templates for common conditions. Individual providers can
then select from these approved templates and customize them for specific patient
Perin Health System Page 6 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
needs, prescribing the specific devices needed, measurement frequencies appropriate
to the condition, and recording schedules tailored to clinical requirements.
The portal includes comprehensive communication capabilities supporting both
patient and care team interactions. Providers can conduct virtual appointments with
integrated video calling, AI-powered real-time transcription using AWS HealthScribe,
and automated clinical note generation structured into standard sections. The
messaging system supports secure text communication with file attachments, while
the task management system enables care coordination across team members.
Providers can create and deploy customized questionnaires with various response
types and scoring algorithms, manage educational content delivery, and review
patient-submitted reports with collaborative response capabilities.
Additional portal features include appointment scheduling with EHR integration,
comprehensive alert management with acknowledgment workflows, administrative
functions for user and device management, and organization hierarchy configuration.
The portal provides detailed audit trails, performance analytics, and compliance
reporting to support quality improvement initiatives.
5. The Perin Health Inpatient Module provides a monitoring dashboard for monitoring
capabilities in healthcare facility environments through. The modules leverage the
existing architectures for the Mobile Application and Provider Portal but offer unique
interfaces for inpatient spot-check measurements.
The web-based monitoring dashboard, a page accessible through the Provider Portal,
displays vital signs for up to 50 concurrent patients in a grid layout. Each patient card
shows the latest values for heart rate, respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, temperature,
and device status, with automatic sorting by alert priority and visual indicators for
threshold violations. The dashboard refreshes every second, updating as new spot-
check recordings are captured from patients across the unit.
The bedside Inpatient Application is built on top of the Android architecture of the
Patient Mobile app and operates in kiosk mode. The Beside app only interfaces with the
Perin Health Patch and relays information to the Cloud to provide clinicians with
access to recent measurements in the Provider Portal Inpatient view. The application
also maintains local data storage for backup operation and automatically synchronizes
with the cloud upon connectivity restoration. Providers are unable to manually input
clinical data (e.g., blood pressure measurements) directly into the bedside Inpatient
Application but manual data input into the EHR can be read into and visualized in the
Provider Portal over the EHR interface.
Perin Health System Page 7 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
The Perin Health System supports monitoring in hospitals and out-of-hospital patient care
settings where care is administered by healthcare professionals. Visual alarm indicators
highlight parameter exceedances according to configured thresholds. High-priority alerts
display prominently with appropriate color coding, though all clinical responses and
acknowledgments must be performed through the Provider Portal to maintain proper
documentation and workflow management.
The Perin Health System facilitates comprehensive spot-checking and retrospective
monitoring across the continuum of care. Data flows from the wearable patch and third-
party devices through the patient mobile application to the central cloud infrastructure,
where processing algorithms derive clinical insights. Healthcare providers access this
information through the web portal or inpatient displays for clinical review and analysis,
enabling healthcare providers to track patient progress, adjust treatment plans based on
measurements, and identify patients requiring intervention based on retrospective data
trends.
Indications for Use
The Perin Health Platform is a wireless remote monitoring system intended for use by
healthcare professionals for spot check collection of physiological data in healthcare and
home settings for long-term monitoring. The Perin Health Patch can monitor auscultation
data of heart and lung sounds, photoplethysmography waveforms (PPG), oxygen
saturation (%SpO2), heart rate, electrocardiography (ECG), heart rate variability, R-R
interval, respiratory rate, skin temperature, activity detection (including step count), and
posture (body position relative to gravity including fall).
The Perin Health System is intended for spot-checking and tracking changes of adult
patients in hospitals, clinics, long-term care, and at home. In home-use environments, the
Perin Health Platform is able to integrate with optional third-party devices for blood
pressure, and weight data collection via the mobile application. The mobile application
transmits data from the Health Patch and third party devices to the cloud and web-based
portal for storage, analysis, and review by healthcare professionals. The Perin Health
Platform can include the ability to notify healthcare professionals when physiological data
falls outside set limits or manual trigger by the patient.
The device is intended to provide physiological information for non-critical, adult
population.
Perin Health System Page 8 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
Substantial Equivalence comparison (Subject Device and Predicate Devices)
Perin Health UbiqVue (Primary Predicate) – Alio (Secondary Predicate)
System (Subject Device) Used for ECG, Skin Temperature, – Used for Auscultation
Respiratory Rate, Oxygen Sound Data
Saturation
510k K252984 K242018 K211365
Product code & DRG DRG DRG
regulation DQD, DQA, FLL, BZQ, DXN, DQA, FLL, MHX DQD
MHX 870.2910 870.2910
870.2910
Intended Use The Perin Health Platform The UbiqVue 2A Multiparameter The Alio Medical Remote
is a wireless remote System is a wireless remote Monitoring System is a
monitoring system patient monitoring system wireless remote
intended for use by intended for monitoring system
healthcare professionals use by healthcare professionals intended for use by
for spot check collection for continuous collection of healthcare professionals
of physiological data in physiological data at home and in to intermittently collect
healthcare and home healthcare settings. This shall physiological data in
settings for long-term include electrocardiography (2- home use settings. The
monitoring. The Perin Channel ECG), heart Rate, data includes skin
Health Patch can monitor SpO2%, respiration rate, pulse temperature, auscultation
auscultation data of heart Rate, photoplethysmography sound data and heart
and lung sounds, waveform, skin temperature, rate. Data is transmitted
photoplethysmography body temperature, wirelessly from the
waveforms (PPG), oxygen body posture, body motion, R-R SmartPatch wearable
saturation (%SpO2), heart Interval, heart Rate variability sensor to a web-based
rate, electrocardiography (HRV) and blood Pressure portal for the healthcare
(ECG), heart rate (optional). provider's (HCP) review.
variability, R-R Data is transmitted wirelessly The Alio Medical RMS is
interval, respiratory rate, near real time from UbiqVue 2A intended for use on
skin temperature, activity Wearable Biosensor and 3rd general care patients who
detection (including step party device (for Blood Pressure are 18 years of age or
count), and posture (body only) to remote central server for older. The SmartPatch
position relative to gravity display, storage, and analysis. sensor is indicated to
including fall). The UbiqVue 2A Multiparameter measure skin temperature
System is intended for non- and pulse rate where
The Perin Health System is critical, adult population. clinically indicated. The
intended for spot- The UbiqVue 2A Multiparameter SmartPatch sensor is
checking and tracking System shall include the ability to indicated to record and
changes of adult patients notify healthcare professionals transmit auscultation
in hospitals, clinics, long- through alerts when physiological sound data where
term care, and at home. In parameters fall outside the set clinically indicated.
home-use environments, limits, manual trigger by the The device is not intended
the Perin Health Platform patient and to display multiple for use in critical care or
is able to integrate with patient's physiological data for other high-acuity
optional third-party remote monitoring at home and
Perin Health System Page 9 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
Perin Health UbiqVue (Primary Predicate) – Alio (Secondary Predicate)
System (Subject Device) Used for ECG, Skin Temperature, – Used for Auscultation
Respiratory Rate, Oxygen Sound Data
Saturation
devices for blood with visual alarm for active environments. The Alio
pressure, and weight data monitoring at hospitals and out- Medical RMS is a
collection via the mobile of-hospital patient care settings secondary, adjunct
application. The mobile (such as clinics, outpatient patient monitor and is not
application transmits data surgery facilities, long-term care intended to replace
from the Health Patch and facilities and physician offices) in existing standard-of-care
third party devices to the which care is administered by patient monitoring
cloud and web-based healthcare professionals. practices.
portal for storage,
analysis, and review by
healthcare professionals.
The Perin Health Platform
can include the ability to
notify healthcare
professionals when
physiological data falls
outside set limits or
manual trigger by the
patient.
The device is intended to
provide physiological
information for non-
critical, adult
population.
Intended Non-critical, adult Non-critical, adult population, 18 Non-critical, adult
Population population, 22 years or years or older population, 18 years or
older older
Intended Use Home & Healthcare Home & Healthcare settings Home setting only
environment settings
Rx or OTC Rx Rx Rx
Spot – Checking Spot-checking Continuous Intermittent
or Continuous
ECG 1-channel 2-channel N/A
HR 20-200 bpm 30-250BPM 30-200 BPM
± 3 BPM or 5%, whichever +- 3 BPM or 5% whichever is
is greater greater
RR Range and 5-30 Breaths per Minutes 5-60 Breaths per Minute N/A
Accuracy
± 1 Breaths per Minute
(Accuracy Root Mean
Perin Health System Page 10 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
Perin Health UbiqVue (Primary Predicate) – Alio (Secondary Predicate)
System (Subject Device) Used for ECG, Skin Temperature, – Used for Auscultation
Respiratory Rate, Oxygen Sound Data
Saturation
Square (Arms) based on ≤ 1 Breath per minute (Mean
bench testing) Absolute Error based on
± 3 Breaths per Minute Simulation study)
(Accuracy Root Mean ≤ 3 Breaths per minute (Mean
Square (Arms) based on Absolute Error based on Clinical
clinical study) study)
Derived from Trans- Trans-thoracic Impedance (TTI),
thoracic Impedance (TTI) ECG Derived Respiration (EDR)
and ECG Derived based on RS Amplitude &
Respiration (EDR) based Respiratory Sinus arrhythmia
on RS Amplitude (RSA) and Accelerometer data
Skin 15 C - 50°C 15C – 43C//59F-109.4F 15 C - 50°C
Temperature ± 0.3°C As per ASTM E1112-00
Resolution: 0.008°C
Time response: 30
minutes
Measurement mode:
Direct
ISO 80601-2-56
Posture Prone, supine, left lateral Supine, Prone, Lying- Left/Right, N/A
recumbent, right lateral Reclining, Reclining-Left/Right,
recumbent, Fowler’s, Leaning Forward, Upright,
Trendelenburg, upright, Upside
leaning forward (> 80% down
average sensitivity and
specificity, compared to
visual)
SpO2% 70% - 100% 0 to 100% N/A
± 3 % ± 3 % (100 to 70%), Less than
PPG, Signal Strength 70% unspecified
Indicator PPG, Signal Strength Indicator
Chest Measurement site Chest Measurement Site
530 nm (Green), 650 nm Spectral Sensor
(Red), 940 nm (IR), Blue
(475 nm)
R-R interval Sinus Heart Rate Beat Classification N/A
Sinus Heart Rate
Heart Rate SDNN (short), RMSSD, SDNN, SDANN, ASDNN, RMSSD, N/A
Variability TINN, pNN50, VLF Band, VLF Band, LF Band, HF Band
(HRV) LF Band, HF Band
Body Motion Active or sedentary (> 90% No Body Motion, Mild Body N/A
sensitivity and specificity) Motion, Moderate Body Motion,
Perin Health System Page 11 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
Perin Health UbiqVue (Primary Predicate) – Alio (Secondary Predicate)
System (Subject Device) Used for ECG, Skin Temperature, – Used for Auscultation
Respiratory Rate, Oxygen Sound Data
Saturation
Severe Body Motion
Fall Detection Fall or no fall ( > 80% N/A N/A
sensitivity and specificity)
Step Count < 5% Absolute Error N/A N/A
Compared to Manual
Count for speeds of at
least 2 miles per hour
Compliance: ANSI/CTA-
2056-A
Emitted light 530 nm (Green), 650 nm N/A 530 nm (Green), 650 nm
peak (Red), 940 nm (IR), Blue (Red),
wavelength (475 nm) 940 nm (IR)
Sound Data Heart N/A Heart
Lungs Lungs
Bowel
Arteries
Veins
Sound Yes N/A Yes
Amplification
Record and Yes (Playback via Provider N/A Yes (Playback via Clinician
Playback Sound Portal and Mobile Portal)
Application)
Sensor Type Thermistor Thermistor Thermistor
Electrocardiogram (ECG) Electrocardiogram (ECG) -
Contact Acoustic sensor - Microphone
Bioimpedance Bioimpedance -
PPG PPG PPG
Accelerometer Accelerometer Accelerometer
Single Use Multiple Use by Single Yes Yes
User
Wear Life 360 hours 120 hours 120 Hours
Dimension 80 mm x 45 mm x 14 mm 116mm x 91mm x17 mm 150mm x 94mm x 36mm
Weight 19 g 35 g Unknown
ECG Electrode Single lead 90.0 mm N/A
distance 60mm electrode distance 73.0 mm
Location on Upper chest, below the Upper Center Chest or Upper Left Unknown
body left collarbone Chest
Data can be Yes Yes Unknown
transferred and
temporarily
stored
Battery LiMnO2 (Primary) LiMnO2 (Primary) Li-ion
Perin Health System Page 12 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
Perin Health UbiqVue (Primary Predicate) – Alio (Secondary Predicate)
System (Subject Device) Used for ECG, Skin Temperature, – Used for Auscultation
Respiratory Rate, Oxygen Sound Data
Saturation
Applied part BF CF Unknown
category
Defibrillation Yes Yes Unknown
proof
HF Surgical No Yes Unknown
equipment
compatibility
Communication BLE 5.4 WLAN (802.11b), BLE 5.2 BLE
protocol
Wireless Radio 2.4 - 2.5 GHz 2.4 - 2.4835 GHz 2.4 - 2.5 GHz
Frequency
Communication AES-CTR 256 WPA2-PSK /CCMP AES-CCM 128 Unknown
Security
Authentication Yes Yes Unknown
from server
Data transferred Yes Yes Unknown
to server
Data buffered if Yes Yes Unknown
there is no
connection with
server
GUI for patient Yes Yes Unknown
admission (only
for single
patient relay)
GUI for PPG Yes Yes Unknown
signal quality
(only for single
patient relay)
Secure Server Data is stored for access Data is stored for access by Unknown
by the Perin Health Active Monitoring Portal & any
Mobile Application and 3rd party server (through API)
Provider Portal.
Programmable Yes (Clinical, Technical, Yes (Clinical, Technical, Manual) Unknown
Alert Manual)
Notification &
Configurable
Early Warning Yes Yes Unknown
Score (NEWS2)
Multi-patient Yes Yes Unknown
tile view
Perin Health System Page 13 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
Perin Health UbiqVue (Primary Predicate) – Alio (Secondary Predicate)
System (Subject Device) Used for ECG, Skin Temperature, – Used for Auscultation
Respiratory Rate, Oxygen Sound Data
Saturation
Single patient Yes Yes Unknown
zoom view
Visual alarm Yes Yes Unknown
indication
Differences Discussion:
• The Subject device has an additional physiological monitoring capability via 3rd
party device integration, weight data. However, the performance of this parameter
is verified and validated, and the 3rd party device (Transtek TeleRPM GBS2012-B) is
a Class I, 510(k) exempt device. Hence, this additional parameter does not affect
the intended use of the Subject device.
• The Subject Device does not claim to measure body temperature as the Primary
Predicate Device. This does not impact the indications for use nor substantial
equivalence.
• The Subject device is intended to perform spot-checking monitoring compared to
continuous monitoring of the Primary Predicate device, as this is a narrower scope
of the Primary Predicate Device, this does not impact the indications for use nor
substantial equivalence.
Comparison with Reference Devices
The EKO Core 500 Digital Stethoscope is used as a reference for the auscultation sounds
of the heart and lungs performed by the Perin Health System.
Perin Health System EKO CORE 500 Digital Stethoscope
(Subject Device) (Reference Device)
510k K252984 K230111
Product code & DRG DQD
regulation
DQD, DQA, FLL, BZQ DPS
870.2910 870.1875
Intended Use The Perin Health Platform is a The CORE 500 Digital Stethoscope
wireless remote monitoring system is intended to be used by clinicians
intended for use by healthcare to electronically amplify, The CORE
Perin Health System Page 14 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
Perin Health System EKO CORE 500 Digital Stethoscope
(Subject Device) (Reference Device)
professionals for spot check 500 Digital Stethoscope is intended
collection of physiological data in to be used by clinicians to
healthcare and home settings for electronically amplify, filter, and
long-term monitoring. The Perin transfer body sounds and three lead
Health Patch can monitor electrocardiogram (ECG)
auscultation data of heart and lung waveforms. The CORE 500 Digital
sounds, photoplethysmography Stethoscope also displays ECG
waveforms (PPG), oxygen saturation waveforms and heart rate on the
(%SpO2), heart rate, display and accompanying mobile
electrocardiography (ECG), heart rate application (when prescribed or
variability, R-R interval, respiratory used under the care of a clinician).
rate, skin temperature, activity The data offered by the device is
detection (including step count), and only significant when used in
posture (body position relative to conjunction with clinician
gravity including fall). evaluation as well as consideration
of other relevant patient data.
The Perin Health System is intended
for spot-checking and tracking
changes of adult patients in
hospitals, clinics, long-term care,
and at home. In home-use
environments, the Perin Health
Platform is able to integrate with
optional third-party devices for blood
pressure, and weight data collection
via the mobile application. The
mobile application transmits data
from the Health Patch and third party
devices to the cloud and web-based
portal for storage, analysis, and
review by healthcare professionals.
The Perin Health Platform can include
the ability to notify healthcare
professionals when physiological
Perin Health System Page 15 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
Perin Health System EKO CORE 500 Digital Stethoscope
(Subject Device) (Reference Device)
data falls outside set limits or manual
trigger by the patient.
The device is intended to provide
physiological information for non-
critical, adult population.
Single Use Multiple Use by Single User Unknown
Wear Life 360 hours 60 hours
Intended Non-critical, adult population, 22 Adults and pediatrics
Population years or older
Intended Use Home & Healthcare settings Healthcare
environment
Rx or OTC Rx Rx
Sensor Type Contact Acoustic Sensor Contact Acoustic Sensor
Sound Yes Yes
Amplification
Audio 40 – 2000 Hz 20 – 2000 Hz
Frequency
Range
Software Mobile Application Mobile Application
Interface
Web Portal
Perin Health System Page 16 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
The Biobeat Platform-2 and BB-613WP Patch (K222010) is used as a reference for spot-
checking performed by the Perin Health System.
Perin Health System (Subject Device) Biobeat Platform-2 and BB-613WP
Patch (Reference Device)
510k K252984 K222010
Product code & DRG DQA
regulation
DQD, DQA, FLL, BZQ, DXN, MHX BZQ, DRG, DXG, DXN, FLL
870.2910 870.2700
Intended Use The Perin Health Platform is a The Biobeat Platform-2 is a wireless
wireless remote monitoring system noninvasive remote monitoring
intended for use by healthcare system intended for use by
professionals for spot check healthcare professionals for spot
collection of physiological data in
check collection of physiological
healthcare and home settings for
data in home and healthcare
long-term monitoring. The Perin
settings. This can include,
Health Patch can monitor
functional oxygen saturation of
auscultation data of heart and lung
arterial
sounds, photoplethysmography
waveforms (PPG), oxygen saturation hemoglobin (%SpO2), pulse rate,
(%SpO2), heart rate, blood pressure, respiration rate
electrocardiography (ECG), heart rate (RRp), hemodynamic parameters
variability, R-R interval, respiratory (stroke volume, cardiac output),
rate, skin temperature, activity
and body temperature.
detection (including step count), and
posture (body position relative to The Biobeat Platform-2 tracks
gravity including fall). changes in blood pressure based on
Pulse Wave Transit Time (PWTT)
which is obtained utilizing pulse
The Perin Health System is intended
measurements from the integrated
for spot-checking and tracking
SpO2 sensor, following a calibration
changes of adult patients in hospitals,
process using an FDA-cleared
clinics, long-term care, and at home.
oscillometric blood pressure
In home-use environments, the Perin
monitor.
Health Platform is able to integrate
Perin Health System Page 17 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
Perin Health System (Subject Device) Biobeat Platform-2 and BB-613WP
Patch (Reference Device)
with optional third-party devices for The Biobeat Platform-2 is intended
blood pressure, and weight data for spot-checking and tracking
collection via the mobile application. changes of adult patients in
The mobile application transmits data hospitals, clinics, long-term care,
from the Health Patch and third party and at
devices to the cloud and web-based
home. The data from the Biobeat
portal for storage, analysis, and
Platform-2 are intended for use by
review by healthcare professionals.
healthcare professionals as an aid
The Perin Health Platform can include
to diagnosis and treatment.
the ability to notify healthcare
The device is not intended for use
professionals when physiological
on critical care patients.
data falls outside set limits or manual
trigger by the patient.
The device is intended to provide
physiological information for non-
critical, adult population.
Intended Non-critical, adult population, 22 Non-critical, adult population, 18
Population years or older years or older
Intended Use Home & Healthcare settings Home & Healthcare settings
environment
Rx or OTC Rx Rx
Spot – Spot-checking Spot-checking
Checking or
Continuous
Discussion of technological differences:
• The Subject device has an additional physiological monitoring capability, weight
data, via integration with a third-party device (Class I, 510(k) exempt, Transtek
TeleRPM GBS2012-B). The weight data integration has been verified and validated to
Perin Health System Page 18 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
perform as intended. Additionally, weight data is at the discretion of the treating
healthcare provider, based on clinical need. Since this parameter is acquired
through a low-risk technology, when deemed appropriate by a physician, for
supplemental patient information, there is no introduction of additional risk.
• The Subject device is intended to perform spot-checking monitoring compared to
continuous monitoring of the Primary Predicate device, as this is a narrower scope
of the Primary Predicate Device, this does not add any additional risk.
• The Subject Device utilizes one ECG channel whereas the Primary Predicate Device
utilizes two. As this is a narrower scope of the Primary Predicate Device, this does
not add any additional risk.
• The Subject Device utilizes a contact acoustic sensor to measure auscultation data
of the heart and lungs. The Secondary Predicate Device utilizes a microphone to
measure auscultation data. However, the Reference Device for Auscultation Data
also utilizes a contact acoustic sensor to perform this measurement, and thus,
there is no introduction of additional risk.
• The Subject device also allows playback of auscultation sound data via the Provider
Portal and the Mobile Application (patient). In contrast, the Secondary Predicate
Device only allows playback via the clinician portal. The auscultation feature of the
Perin Health System is solely indicated for recording and playback of body sounds
to support clinical assessment, including interpretation and findings, by qualified
healthcare professionals. However, patients using the Perin Health System are able
to confirm they were able to take a recording via the Mobile Application playback
option. Thus, this is a risk mitigation, ensuring patients can verify a successful
recording, and it does not add additional risk.
• The predicate device, the UbiqVue Multiparameter 2A, utilizes wet (hydrogel)
electrodes for biopotential signal acquisition, whereas the subject device employs
dry electrodes. Although the electrode technology differs, the subject device has
been demonstrated to perform equivalently to standard wet electrodes. Bench and
performance testing, including verification against ANSI/AAMI EC12, confirmed that
the dry electrodes meet the same safety and performance requirements as
hydrogel electrodes. Accordingly, this difference in electrode technology does not
raise new questions of safety or effectiveness.
Perin Health System Page 19 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
Summary of Performance Testing
Verification & Validation activities were performed on Perin Health System to demonstrate
substantial equivalence to the predicate device:
• Biocompatibility testing of In-vitro cytotoxicity, skin irritation and skin sensitization
were conducted on Perin Health System, according to ISO 10993-1: 2018 Biological
Evaluation of Medical Devices – Part 1: Evaluation and Testing within a Risk
Management Process. Tests were performed in accordance with ISO 10993-5:2009,
ISO 10993-10:2021, and ISO 10993-23:2021.
• Electrical Safety and electromagnetic compatibility testing were conducted on the
Perin Health System for compliance with IEC 60601-1(Ed.3.2), IEC 60601-1-2 (Ed. 4.1)
and IEC 60601-1- 11(Ed. 2.1).
• The Skin temperature accuracy performance of the Perin Health System was verified by
using bench testing, as per ISO 80601-2-56:2017(E).
• ECG, Heart Rate, R-R Interval, and Heart Rate Variability performance testing was
performed on the Perin Health System in compliance with ANSI/AAMI/IEC 60601-2-
27:2011, ANSI/AAMI/IEC 60601-2-47:2012.
• Auscultation data of heart and lung sounds has been verified by using bench testing in
accordance with acceptance criteria.
• Defibrillation proof testing was performed on the Perin Health System for compliance
with IEC 60601-1:2005, IEC 60601-1:2005/AMD1:2012, IEC 60601-1:2005/AMD2:2020.
• Body Motion, Fall Detection, and Posture performance of the Perin Health System were
verified by using bench testing as per the acceptance criteria.
• Step Count performance of the Perin Health System was verified via bench testing as
per ANSI/CTA-2056-A.
• The Alert system & Visual alarm display on the Perin Health System was verified for
compliance with IEC 60601-1-8 (Ed. 2.2).
• Usability study was conducted on the Perin Health System for compliance with IEC
60601-1-6 (Ed. 3.2) and “USFDA Guidance- Applying Human Factors and Usability
Engineering to Medical Devices.”
• Wireless performance & coexistence testing conducted as per ANSI/IEEE C63.27:2017:
American National Standard for Evaluation of Wireless coexistence on the Perin Health
System.
• Software in the Perin Health System was designed, documented, verified & validated as
per the IEC 62304: Medical device Software - Software Life Cycle Process and USFDA
Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical
Device. The Software for this device is determined as Class C and Enhanced
Documentation Level.
Perin Health System Page 20 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
• Software in the Perin Health System was securely designed, documented, verified &
validated as per the USFDA Guidance Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality
System Considerations and Content of Premarket Submissions.
• Shelf-life testing was conducted and verified on the Perin Health Patch, as per the
acceptance criteria.
• Packaging testing conducted on the packaged Perin Health Patch as per ISTA 6.
Summary of Clinical Testing
Clinical validation activities were performed on Perin Health System to demonstrate
substantial equivalence to the predicate device:
• The Perin Health System and Patch were verified & validated for no motion accuracy in
compliance with ISO 80601-2-61(Ed. 2.0) including clinical validation to determine the
accuracy of SpO2% in induced hypoxia studies in the range of 70% to 100% SpO2
against arterial blood samples analyzed by a laboratory co-oximeter.
12 healthy adults (5 female, 7 male), ages 24-42, Monk scale assessment
o
across 5 anatomical sites (1 B, 2 C, 2 D, 3 E, 2 G, 2 H).
The overall measured Arms in the range of 70 to 100% SpO was 3.3%, with
o 2
Arms of 3.5 for 67% to <80%, 3.1 for 80% to <90%, and 3.3 for 90% to 100%.
• The Respiratory Rate accuracy performance of the Perin Health System was verified by
using bench testing and through clinical validation against the gold standard, manually
counted end-tidal CO .
2
The demographics of the analyzed population were 17 males and 18 females
o
(age: 24-72 years, weight: 111-390 lbs, height: 60-75 inches, BMI: 18-50). 1
American Indian/Alaska Native, 2 Asian, 8 Black/African-American, 23 White,
and 1 other, with 8 participants of Hispanic/Latino ethnicity and 27 of Non-
Hispanic/Non-Latino ethnicity were completed.
After baseline data was collected at the participant’s natural respiratory rate, a
o
range of stable respiratory rates (approx. 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, and 30 breaths per
minute) were elicited from each volunteer.
Subgroup analysis was conducted for sex, comorbidities (asthma, diabetes,
o
COPD, smoker, hypertension, congestive heart failure), BMI, age, and skin tone.
The accuracy root mean square (Arms) for 259 points was 1.7 breaths per
o
minute, with all subgroups exhibiting Arms between 0.5 and 2.8.
The mean absolute error (MAE) for 259 points was 0.8 breaths per minute, with
o
all subgroups exhibiting MAE between 0.4 and 1.3.
• ECG, Heart Rate, R-R Interval, and Heart Rate Variability performance testing was
performed on the Perin Health System through clinical validation against a standard
Holter monitor.
Perin Health System Page 21 of 22K252984 510(k) Summary
243 participants were analyzed for ECG, HR, and HRV performance.
o
Participants were enrolled from a diverse composition of gender (51.4%
female/48.6% male), race (Asian 17.7%, Black/African American 15.2%,
Hispanic or Latino 16.9%, White 39.9%, Other or Multiple 9.5%), age (22-90 with
32.1% ≥ 60 years), and a mix of healthy controls (50.78%) and patients with
chronic conditions (hypertension, cardiovascular diseases, COPD, diabetes,
and arrhythmias).
The ECG performance validation demonstrated high levels of agreement
o
between the Perin Health patch and the reference Holter monitor across all
evaluated parameters (timing intervals, SNR, morphological features) and for all
demographic and clinical subgroups.
• Wear-life performance of the Perin Health Patch was verified & validated for
compliance via internal clinical wear life evaluation to confirm sustained adhesion to
the body for 360 hours.
26 participants were enrolled across 3 clinical sites, with a balanced sex
o
distribution, 30% aged ≥ 60 years, 30% with BMI ≥ 30, and including healthy
controls and patients with documented arrhythmias.
The system demonstrated stable performance across all evaluated
o
parameters (timing intervals, SNR, morphological features) and for all
demographic and clinical subgroups.
Conclusion
The Perin Health System is substantially equivalent in indications for use & intended use to
the legally marketed Predicate Device(s) & Reference Device(s). Minor differences between
the Perin Health System and the Predicate & Reference devices have no significant effect
on safety or effectiveness, as established through various performance tests. Thus, the
proposed device/system is substantially equivalent to the legally marketed predicate &
reference devices.
Perin Health System Page 22 of 22