February 19, 2026
Elekta Solutions AB
Elinor Li
Sr. Regulatory Specialist
Hagaplan 4
Stockholm, 113 68
Sweden
Re: K252002
Trade/Device Name: Monaco RTP System (6.3)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.5050
Regulation Name: Medical Charged-Particle Radiation Therapy System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: MUJ
Dated: June 27, 2025
Received: June 27, 2025
Dear Elinor Li:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.04
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK252002 - Elinor Li Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the Medical Device File (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K252002 - Elinor Li Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Lora D. Weidner, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Radiation Therapy Team
DHT8C: Division of Radiological
Imaging and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureM o n a c o R T P S y s te m
I
] O v e r-T h e -C o u a p p lic a b le ).
P le a s e s e le c t th e ty p e s o f u s e s (s e le c t o n e o r b o th , a s P re s c rip tio n U
* Q A a n d p la n re v ie w
* p la n o p tim iz a tio n
* im a g e fu s io n
* s im u la tio n
* im a g e m a n ip u la tio n
* c o n to u rin g
p la n n in g . It u s e s g e n e ra lly a c c e p te d m e th o d s fo r:
fo r g iv e n tre a tm e n t p la n s e t-u p s . T h e M o n a c o p ro d u c t lin e is in te n d e d fo r u
d is p la y s , o n -s c re e n a n d in h a rd -c o p y , tw o - o r th re e -d im e n s io n a l ra d ia tio n d
ra d ia tio n th e ra p y . T h e s y s te m c a lc u la te s d o s e fo r p h o to n , e le c tro n , a n d p ro
T h e M o n a c o s y s te m is u s e d to m a k e tre a tm e n t p la n s fo r p a tie n ts w ith p re s
[
P le a s e p ro v id e y o u r In d ic a tio n s fo r U s e b e lo w .
(6 .3 ) S y s te m R T P M o n a c o
P le a s e p ro v id e th e d e v ic e tra d e n a m e (s ).
te x tb o x w ill b e le ft b la n k fo r o rig in a l a p p lic a tio n s /s u b m is s io n s .
P le a s e ty p e in th e m a rk e tin g a p p lic a tio n /s u b m is s io n n u m b e r, if it is k n o w n
I
I n d i c a t i o n s f o r U s e
P a g e 9 o
n te r U s e (2 1 C F R 8 0 1 S u b p a rt C )
D ) s e (P a rt 2 1 C F R 8 0 1 S u b p a rt
s e in ra d ia tio n tre a tm e n t
o s e d is trib u tio n s in s id e p a tie n
to n tre a tm e n t p la n s a n d
c rip tio n s fo r e x te rn a l b e a m
I K 2 5 2 0 0 2
. T h is
f 4
2
ts
I
6K252002
Traditional 510(k) Summary (21 CFR § 807.92)
I. Submitter
Address Elekta Solutions AB
Hagaplan 4
113 68 Stockholm
Sweden
Contact Elinor Li
Sr. Regulatory Specialist, Regulatory Affairs Software
+1 (224) 6022203 / + 86 18817581406
Elinor.Li@elekta.com
510(k) Number K252002
Date Prepared 2025-06-27
II. Device
Trade Name Monaco RTP System (6.3)
Brand Name Monaco, Elekta One | Planning, Elekta One | Planning Pro
Product Classification Class II
Common Name Monaco Radiotherapy Treatement Planning (RTP)
Classification Name System, Planning, Radiation Therapy Treatment
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.5050
Product Code MUJ
III. Predicate Device
Predicate # K223233
Predicate Trade Name Monaco RTP System (6.2)
Predicate Product Code MUJ
IV. Device Description Summary
The Monaco RTP System accepts patient diagnostic imaging data from CT and MR scans, and source
dosimetry data, typically from a linear accelerator. The system then permits the user to display and define
(contour) the target volume to be treated and critical structures which must not receive above a certain
level of radiation, on these diagnostic images. Based on the prescribed dose, the user, a Dosimetrist or
Medical Physicist, can then create multiple treatment scenarios involving the number, position(s) and
energy of radiation beams and the use of a beam modifier (MLC, block, etc.) between the source of
radiation and the patient to shape the beam. Monaco RTP system then produces a display of radiation
dose distribution within the patient, indicating not only doses to the target volume but to surrounding tissue
and structures. The optimal plan satisfying the prescription is then selected, one that maximizes dose to
the target volume while minimizing dose to surrounding healthy volumes.
The parameters of the plan are output for later reference and for inclusion in the patient file. Monaco
planning methods and modalities:
•Intensity Modulated Radiation Treatment (IMRT) planning
•Electron, photon and proton treatment planning
•Planning for dynamic delivery methods (e.g. dMLC, dynamic conformal)
•Volumetric Modulated Arc Therapy (VMAT))
•Stereotactic planning and support of cone-based stereotactic
Elekta Solutions AB June 2025
Monaco- Traditional 510(k)• 3D conformal planning
• Distributed planning configurations (e.g.,for conventional linac)
• Adaptive planning capabilities (e.g.,for MR-Linac & conventional linac)
• Auto planning features (e.g.,for conventional linac)
Monaco basic systems tools, characteristics, and functions:
• Plan review tools
• Manual and automated contouring tools (Segmentation component for MR images)
• DICOM connectivity
• Windows operating system
• Simulation
• Support for a variety of beam modifiers (e.g. MLCs, blocks, etc.)
• Standardized uptake value (SUV)
• Specialty Image Creation (MIP, MinIP, and Avg)
• Monaco dose and Monitor Unit (MU) calculation
• Dose calculation algorithms for electron, photon, proton planning
Monaco is programmed using C, C++ and C# computer programming languages. Monaco
runs on Windows operating system and off-the-shelf computer server/hardware.
V. Intended Use/ Indications for Use
The Monaco system is used to make treatment plans for patients with prescriptions for external beam
radiation therapy. The system calculates dose for photon, electron, and proton treatment plans and
displays, on-screen and in hard-copy, two- or three- dimensional radiation dose distributions inside
patients for given treatment plan set-ups.
The Monaco product line is intended for use in radiation treatment planning. It uses generally accepted
methods for:
• contouring
• image manipulation
• simulation
• image fusion
• plan optimization
• QA and plan review
VI. Intended Use/ Indications for Use Comparison
The Monaco Indication for Use Statement and Intended use remain unchanged from the Indications for
Use Statement and intended use cleared under predicate device K223233.
VII Comparison to Predicate
.
Item Predicate Device Subject Device Substantial
Equivalence
Discussion
The Monaco system is No change
The Monaco system is used
used to make treatment
to make treatment plans for
plans for patients with
patients with prescriptions for
prescriptions for external
external beam radiation
beam radiation therapy.
therapy. The system
The system calculates
Indications calculates dose for photon, dose for photon,
electron and proton
electron and proton
treatment plans and
treatment plans and
displays, on screen and in
displays, on screen and
hard-copy, two- or three-
in hard-copy, two- or
dimensional radiation dose
three-dimensional
distributions inside the
radiation dose
Elekta Solutions AB June 2025
Monaco- Traditional 510(k)patients for given treatment distributions inside the
plan set-ups. patients for given
The Monaco product line is treatment plan set-ups.
intended for use in radiation The Monaco product line
treatment planning. It uses is intended for use in
generally accepted methods radiation treatment
for: planning. It uses
•Contouring generally accepted
•Image manipulation methods for:
•Simulation •Contouring
•Image fusion •Image manipulation
•Plan optimization •Simulation
•QA and plan review •Image fusion
•Plan optimization
•QA and plan review
Use Access-controlled Access-controlled No change
Environment Healthcare facilities Healthcare facilities
Monte Carlo - electron &
Monte Carlo - electron & photon
photon Collapsed Cone
Collapsed Cone (photon) (photon) Substantially Equivalent
Dose Pencil Beam (only used Pencil Beam (only used
Calculation when optimization) when optimization) GPUMCD extends from
Algorithms GPUMCD for photon (MR GPUMCD for photon MR linac to
linac) (both MR linac and conventional linac.
GPUMCD for proton conventional linac)
Proton Pencil Beam GPUMCD for proton
Proton Pencil Beam
Proton
Yes Yes No change
planning
Dose
calculation for
MR-Linac
(including Yes Yes No change
magnetic field,
coils &
cryostat)
Substantially Equivalent
Adaptive Therapy
Planning functionalities
Adaptive Adaptive therapy planning Adaptive therapy are extended from MR
Therapy for MR linac planning for MR linac & linac (UNITY) to
Planning
conventional linac conventional Linac
(EMLA). Enables offline
adaptive planning on
EMLA.
Substantially Equivalent
Auto planning feature
Yes (for conventional for iterative modification
Auto Planning No linac) of optimization cost
function parameters
introduced in subject
device.
Substantially Equivalent
The Segmentation
Yes
Component utilizes
Contouring Yes (with traditional and machine-learning based
(with traditional algorithm) machine learning models to automatically
algorithm) segment MR image
sets introduced in
subject device.
Elekta Solutions AB June 2025
Monaco- Traditional 510(k)Distributed
Yes (for conventional
planning Yes (for conventional linac) No change
linac)
deployment
Substantially Equivalent
Local Next Generation Next Generation
Biological Hypertion Optimizer Optimizer (GPU- Optimizer in the subject
Measure (Constrained Optimization) accelerated Hypertion device is the GPU
Optimization Optimizer) based optimizer which
uses Pseudo-Gradient
Descent algorithm.
Operating
Windows 10 Windows 10 No change
System
DICOM RT Yes Yes No change
Support
Programming C, C++, C# C, C++, C# No change
Language
Modalities Photon, Electron, Proton Photon, Electron, Proton No change
Supported
Beam modeling is No change
Beam modeling is performed performed by Elekta
by Elekta personnel. personnel. Standardized
Beam Standardized beam models beam models are
modelling are provided for some Elekta provided for some
linac energy options. Elekta linac energy
options.
Both UI based and non- Substantially Equivalent
Scripting UI based scripting UI based scripting
Archive/ Yes Yes No change
Retrieve
ISO 13485
ISO 13485
ISO 14971
ISO 14971
IEC 62304
IEC 62304
IEC 62083
IEC 62083
Standards IEC 82304-1 IEC 82304-1 Substantially Equivalent
Compliance IEC 61217 IEC 61217
IEC 62366-1
IEC 62366-1
IEC 81001-5-1
ISO 15223-1
ISO 15223-1
ISO 20417
• EMLA
Compatibility • EMLA • MR-linac Unity
with • MR-linac Unity • MOSAIQ Substantially Equivalent
Connected • MOSAIQ • Third party
Systems • Smart flow contouring tools
• Smart flow
VIII Technological Comparison
At a high level, both the predicate device and the subject device are based on the same characteristics:
Monaco RTP System version 6.3 is an updated version of the predicate device and has identical
intended use and technological characteristics (identical designs, principles of operation, and use
environments) as well as the same indications for use as the predicate device cleared per K223233.
Any difference in the technological characteristics do not raise new questions of safety and
effectiveness as proven by established methods of verification and validation.
The new features introduced into the subject device are described below:
Monaco now provides, through software system modification,
- auto planning feature for iterative modification of optimization cost function parameters,
Elekta Solutions AB June 2025
Monaco- Traditional 510(k)- segmentation component for invoking MR auto-segmentation algorithms,
- interoperability with 3rd party software for image management and contouring and
- extending the adaptive planning capabilities to EMLA for offline adaptive planning.
IX. Summary of Performance Testing (Non-Clinical)
Testing in the form of manual and automated verification were performed to evaluate the performance
and functionality of the new features against requirement specification.
Regression test of unchanged functionalities in the subject device was done to ensure that new and
updated functionalities did not introduce any undesirable effects.
Design validation of the device have been performed by competent and professionally qualified personnel
to ensure that the product fulfils the intended use and user needs. The design validation also ensured
that the risk control measures associated with functions related to safety for the affected functionality were
effective.
The following testing was performed to establish substantial equivalence for the changes in scope of this
510(k):
Changes on scope of Monaco 6.3 Testing Performed to establish substantial equivalence
Segmentation component for invoking For the AI-based segmentation component, performance
MR auto-segmentation algorithms testing was conducted for the models – Female Pelvis
Intact & Hysterectomy (trained on a joint image set of 529
images), Male Pelvis (trained on an image set of 250
images) and Head& Neck trained on an image set of 1862
images).
The primary metric for evaluating the model’s
performance is the Average Hausdorff Distance (AVD).
The acceptance threshold is set at 3 mm. A DICE or AUC
value of 0.7 is also taken to represent a value of interest
that might indicate model performance with respect to a
structure or set of structures, however the DICE and AUC
results were not explicitly used as the pass/fail metric.
Quantitative performance evaluation demonstrated that,
for all evaluated structures across all models, the mean
Absolute Volume Difference (AVD) was less than 3 mm.
Structure specific statistical analyses supported this
conclusion. In addition, for all structures and models, the
patterns of failure for any structure that did not meet the
Dice Similarity Coefficient (DICE) confidence value of
interest of 0.7 were investigated and any findings were
included as "Limitations".
Sub-group analysis is carried on the assessment of
performance in the patient size, pixel size, slice spacing
and number of slices subgroups.
Additionally, qualitative analysis has also been executed
based on a 5-point Likert scale with a conclusion that the
automatically generated structures provided a valuable
starting point for clinical delineation.
Auto-planning Verification testing was performed to evaluate the
AutoPlanning functionality, including workflow
performance, protocol management, plan creation,
intero‑perability, and error handling.
Validation testing demonstrated that the Auto Planning
functionality supports the creation of clinically acceptable
treatment plans for the intended use. Treatme‑nt plans
generated using AutoPlanning were reviewed within the
clinical workflow and determined to be suitable for
clinical use, without in‑troducing new safety or
Elekta Solutions AB June 2025
Monaco- Traditional 510(k)effectiveness concerns. All testing met pre-defined
acceptance criteria.
Extending the adaptive planning Verification testing was performed to evaluate the offline
capabilities to EMLA for offline adaptive adaptive planning functionality using Monaco. Testing
planning assessed correct system behavior during image
registration, structure propagation, dose recalculation/re-
optimization, offline adaptive plan generation, and
workflow execution under representative clinical
scenarios.
The purpose of testing was to confirm that offline
adaptive planning functions operate as intended and
support the creation of an updated treatment plan based
on CBCT imaging without compromising data integrity or
workflow performance. No defects, unexpected behavior,
or data integrity issues were identified during testing.
Validation testing demonstrated that offline adaptive
planning using CT toCBCT supports creation of
clinically acceptable treatment plans for the intended
use. The offline ad‑ap‑tive plans generated using CBCT
imaging were reviewed within the clinical workflow and
determined to be suitable for use. Verification and
validation testing met pre-defined acceptance criteria.
Interoperability with 3rd party software The device incorporates or interfaces with third party
for image management and contouring contouring functionality intended to support radiotherapy
‑
treatment planning.
Verification and validation testing were conducted to
confirm that the thirdparty contouring performs as
intended and does not adversely impact the safety or
‑
effectiveness of the overall system.
Verification testing was conducted to confirm correct
DICOM export functionality, preservation of data
integrity, and successful creation of an offline adaptive
plan when using the third party contouring functionality.
‑
Validation testing was conducted to verify the treatment
planning workflows in a Treatment Planning System
(TPS) and treatment preparation in Record and Verify
(R&V) system.
Acceptance criteria were defined to ensure that
thirdparty contouring outputs are clinically acceptable
and comparable to reference contours produced by
‑
qualified users.
All verification and validation testing met the predefined
acceptance criteria. All planned Solution Interoperability
test cases have been successfully executed and passed.
Results from verification and validation testing demonstrate that conformance to applicable technical
requirement specification and user needs have been met and that the device functions as intended.
X. Summary of Performance Testing (Clinical)
No animal or clinical tests were performed to establish substantial equivalence with the predicate device.
The performance data demonstrate that the subject device is as safe and effective and performs as well
as the predicate devices (K223233).
Elekta Solutions AB June 2025
Monaco- Traditional 510(k)XI. Substantial Equivalence Conclusion
The subject device, Monaco 6.3 is substantially equivalent (SE) to the predicate Monaco 6.2 (K223233).
The intended use and indications for use are identical to the predicate device and the principles of
operation remain unchanged.
The technological characteristics are substantially equivalent to the predicate device. The device safety
and performance have been established by non-clinical testing in conformance with predetermined
performance criteria, FDA guidance, and recognized consensus standards.
The result of verification and validation as well as conformance to relevant safety standards demonstrate
that Monaco 6.3 meets the established safety and performance criteria and is substantially equivalent to
the predicate device.
Elekta Solutions AB June 2025
Monaco- Traditional 510(k)