May 15, 2026
Neurophet., Inc.
Jin Woo Jeong
RA Team member
12f, 124, Teheran-Ro, Gangnam-Gu
Seoul, Republic Of Korea
Re: K252563
Trade/Device Name: Neurophet SCALE PET
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical image management and processing system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH, LLZ
Dated: March 20, 2026
Received: March 20, 2026
Dear Jin Woo Jeong:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.05
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK252563 - Jin Woo Jeong Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. SeeK252563 - Jin Woo Jeong Page 3
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Daniel M. Krainak. Ph.D.
Assistant Director
DHT8C: Division of Radiological
Imaging and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALT H AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: 0MB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use PRA Statement below.
See
(if known)
Submission Number
K252563
I
Device Name
Neurophet SCALE PET
I
(Describe)
Indications for Use
Neurophet SCALE PET is software for the registration, fusion, display and analysis of medical
images from multiple modalities including MRI and PET. The software aids clinician in the
assessment and quantification of pathologies from PET scans of the human brain. It enables
automatic analysis and visualization of brain PET through the calculation of standard uptake volume
ratios (SUVR) and its derived quantitative values within target regions of interest and comparison to
those within the reference regions. The software is deployed via medical imaging workplaces and is
organized as a series of workflows which are specific to use with radio-tracer and disease
combinations.
(Select one or both, applicable)
Type of Use as
IZJ D
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
"An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and person is not required to respond to, collection of
a a
information unless it displays currently valid 0MB number."
aK252563
510(k) Summary
[As Required by 21 CFR 807.92]
1.Date Prepared [21 CFR 807.92(a)(1)]
05/13/2026
2.Submitter’s Information [21 CFR 807.92(a)(1)]
Name of Manufacturer NEUROPHET, Inc.
Address 12F, 124, Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul 06234, Republic
of Korea.
Contact Name Jin Woo Jeong
Telephone No. 82-10-3614-9923
Email Address jwjeong@neurophet.com
3.Identification of Proposed Device(s) [21 CFR 807.92(a)(2)]
510(k) Number K252563
Trade/Device/Model Name Neurophet SCALE PET
Device Classification Name Medical image management and processing system
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.2050
Classification Product Code QIH, LLZ
Device Class Class II
510(k) Review Panel Radiology
510(k) Summary 1 / 11 Neurophet SCALE PET4. Identification of Predicate Device(s) [21 CFR 807.92(a)(3)]
The identified predicate device within this submission is shown as follow;
- Predicate device #1
510(k) Number K221405
Trade/Device/Model Name SCALE PET
Device Classification Name Medical image management and processing system
Regulation Number 892.2050
Classification Product Code LLZ
Device Class Class II
510(k) Review Panel Radiology
- Predicate device #2
510(k) Number K252496
Trade/Device/Model Name Neurophet AQUA AD Plus
Device Classification Name Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Regulation Number 892.2050
Classification Product Code QIH, LLZ
Device Class Class II
510(k) Review Panel Radiology
These predicate devices have not been subject to a design-related recall.
510(k) Summary 2 / 11 Neurophet SCALE PET5. Description of the Device [21 CFR 807.92(a)(4)]
Neurophet SCALE PET is designed for aiding physicians to make a medical decision for
neurodegeneration and cognitive impairment. The system streamlines clinical workflow from patient
registration to analysis result archive and report generation with software-based features.
6. Indications for Use [21 CFR 807.92(a)(5)]
Neurophet SCALE PET is software for the registration, fusion, display and analysis of medical images
from multiple modalities including MRI and PET. The software aids clinician in the assessment and
quantification of pathologies from PET scans of the human brain. It enables automatic analysis and
visualization of brain PET through the calculation of standard uptake volume ratios (SUVR) and its
derived quantitative values within target regions of interest and comparison to those within the
reference regions. The software is deployed via medical imaging workplaces and is organized as a
series of workflows which are specific to use with radio-tracer and disease combinations.
.
510(k) Summary 3 / 11 Neurophet SCALE PET7. Technological Comparison [21 CFR 807.92(a)(6)]
Provided below is a table that compares technological characteristics of the Neurophet SCALE PET
and the predicate device
[Table 1. Comparison of Proposed Device to Predicate Devices]
Proposed Device Predicate Device #1 Predicate Device #2 Note
K Number K252563 K221405 K252496 -
Manufacturer NEUROPHET, Inc. NEUROPHET, Inc. NEUROPHET, Inc. -
Product Name Neurophet SCALE PET Neurophet AQUA AD
Neurophet SCALE PET -
(V2.0) Plus (v3.0)
Product Code QIH, LLZ LLZ QIH, LLZ Identical.
Regulation
892.2050 892.2050 892.2050 Identical
Number
510(k)
Radiology Radiology Radiology Identical
Review Panel
Indications Neurophet SCALE PET Neurophet SCALE PET Neurophet AQUA AD
for Use is software for the is a software for the Plus is intended for
automatic labeling,
registration, fusion, registration, fusion,
visualization, and
display and analysis of display and analysis of
volumetric
medical images from medical images from quantification of
multiple modalities multiple modalities segmentable brain
including MRI and PET. including MRI and PET. structures and lesions,
The software aids The software aids as well as
clinician in the clinician in the SUVR quantification
from a set of MR and
assessment and assessment and
PET images.
quantification of quantification of
Volumetric
pathologies from PET pathologies from PET measurements may be
scans of the human Amyloid/FDG scans of compared to reference Identical
brain. It enables the human brain. It percentile data.
automatic analysis and enables automatic
visualization of brain analysis and
PET through the visualization of
calculation of standard amyloid protein
uptake volume ratios concentration through
(SUVR) and its derived the calculation of
quantitative values standard uptake
within target regions volume ratios (SUVR)
of interest and within target regions
comparison to those of interest and
within the reference comparison to those
510(k) Summary 4 / 11 Neurophet SCALE PETProposed Device Predicate Device #1 Predicate Device #2 Note
regions. The software within the reference
is deployed via medical regions. The software
imaging workplaces is deployed via medical
and is organized as a imaging workplaces
series of workflows and is organized as a
which are specific to series of workflows
use with radio-tracer which are specific to
and disease use with radiotracer
combinations. and disease
combinations.
Design and  Automatic  Automatic  Automated
Incorporated segmentation and segmentation and measurement of
Technology quantification of quantification of brain tissue
brain structures brain structures volumes and
based on MR and PET based on the MR structures and
image intensities image intensity and lesions
using static deep static deep-learning
 Automatic
learning technologies
segmentation and
technologies.
 Quantifies the quantification of
 Quantifies the standardized uptake brain structures
standardized uptake value of the region of and lesions based
value of the region of interest and then on MR and PET
interest and then calculates the ratio of image intensities
calculates the ratio of the standardized using static deep
the standardized uptake value (SUVR) learning
uptake value(SUVR) by comparing it with technologies.
by comparing it with the standardized
 Quantifies the Similar
the standardized uptake value of a
standardized
uptake value of a referenced region.
uptake value of
referenced region.
the region of
 Automatic calculation interest and then
of the Centiloid scale calculates the ratio
by SUVR, which of the
indicate the degree standardized
of amyloid uptake
accumulation, to value(SUVR) by
quantify the severity comparing it with
of dementia. the standardized
uptake value of a
referenced region.
 Automatic
calculation of the
Centiloid scale by
SUVR, which
510(k) Summary 5 / 11 Neurophet SCALE PETProposed Device Predicate Device #1 Predicate Device #2 Note
indicate the
degree of amyloid
accumulation, to
quantify the
severity of
dementia.
Physical  Software package  Software package  Software package
characteristics
 Operates on off-  Operates on off- Operates on off-the-
the-shelf the-shelf shelf hardware
Identical
hardware hardware (multiple vendors)
(multiple (multiple
vendors) vendors)
Operating Supports windows Supports windows Supports windows
Identical
System
Processing Automated internal Automated internal Automated internal
Architecture pipeline that performs: pipeline that performs: pipeline that performs:
-artifact correction -artifact correction -artifact correction
-segmentation -segmentation -segmentation
-SUVR calculation -SUVR calculation -lesion quantification
Similar
-Centiloid Scale - report generation -volume calculation
calculation
-SUVR calculation
-report generation
-Centiloid Scale
calculation
-report generation
Data Source  MRI scanner: 3D T1-  MRI scanner: 3D T1-  MRI scanner: 3D
weighted Weighted T1 and T2 FLAIR,
T2* GRE / SWI
 PET scanner:  PET scanner:
MRI
Amyloid PET, FDG Amyloid PET, FDG
PET PET  PET scanner: Identical
Amyloid PET
 SCALE PET Supports  SCALE PET Supports
DICOM format as DICOM format as AQUA AD Plus
input input Supports DICOM
format as input
Output  provides the  provides the  Provides
capabilities to adjust capabilities to adjust volumetric
image transparency image transparency measurements of Similar
and apply color and apply color brain structures
mapping to mapping to and lesions
510(k) Summary 6 / 11 Neurophet SCALE PETProposed Device Predicate Device #1 Predicate Device #2 Note
individual brain individual brain  provides the
structures structures capabilities to
adjust image
 Quantifies the  Quantifies the
transparency and
standardized uptake standardized uptake
apply color
value (SUV) of the value (SUV) of the
mapping to
region of interest region of interest
individual brain
and calculates the and calculates the
structures
standardized uptake standardized uptake
value ratio (SUVR) value ratio (SUVR)  Automatically
by comparing it with by comparing it with compares results
the SUV of a that of a reference to reference
reference region. region. percentile data
The calculated SUVR and to prior scans
 Supports DICOM
is then converted when available
format as output of
into a Centiloid unit
results that can be  Quantifies the
and provided.
displayed on DICOM standardized
 Supports DICOM workstations and uptake value
format as output of Picture Archive and (SUV) of the
results that can be Communications region of interest
displayed on DICOM Systems and calculates the
workstations and standardized
Picture Archive and uptake value ratio
Communications (SUVR) by
Systems comparing it with
the SUV of a
reference region.
The calculated
SUVR is then
converted into a
Centiloid unit and
provided.Supports
DICOM format as
output of results
that can be
displayed on
DICOM
workstations and
Picture Archive
and
Communications
Systems
Safety Automated quality Automated quality Automated quality
control functions: control functions: control functions: Identical
-Tissue contrast check -Tissue contrast check -Tissue contrast check
510(k) Summary 7 / 11 Neurophet SCALE PETProposed Device Predicate Device #1 Predicate Device #2 Note
-Scan protocol -Scan protocol -Scan protocol
verification verification verification
-Atlas alignment check -Atlas alignment check -Atlas alignment check
Results must be Results must be Results must be
reviewed by a trained reviewed by a trained reviewed by a trained
physician physician physician
The technological parameters of the Neurophet SCALE PET are either identical or similar to those of
the predicate devices, and the differences do not raise new types of questions regarding the safety
and effectiveness for the proposed indications for use.
510(k) Summary 8 / 11 Neurophet SCALE PET8. Non-Clinical Test Summary
The following data were provided in support of the substantial equivalence determination:
1) Software Validation
The Neurophet SCALE PET contains enhanced document level of concern software. The software was
designed and developed according to a software development process and was verified and validated.
Software information is provided in accordance with FDA guidance:
• “Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software Functions,” dated June 14, 2023.
2) Performance characteristics
Neurophet SCALE PET was validated for its intended use and evaluated to determine substantial
equivalence to the predicate devices. The device consists of AI modules for automated segmentation
and quantitative analysis using MR and PET images. Performance characteristics were established
through a series of independent tests, summarized as follows:
a) Training Data
Distinct training datasets were constructed for core module (T1-SegEngine), using clinically normal
subjects, comprising a combination of public research datasets (ADNI, HCP, IXI, AIBL, and PPMI),
and private hospital datasets collected from the Republic of Korea (Catholic university, Yeouido ST.
Mary’s hospital). Training data covered:
 Adult subjects across a broad age range (approximately 20–80+ years), with both sexes
represented and including multiple racial/ethnic groups (e.g., White, Asian, Black).
 MRI acquired on major vendor platforms (GE, Siemens, Philips) at 3T using standard 3D
T1‑weighted.
Training and test datasets were strictly separated at the subject level. No images or manual labels
from the training datasets were reused in the test datasets, ensuring independence of performance
estimates.
b) Performance Test
Standalone performance tests were conducted for all modules using datasets that were completely
independent from those used for development and training. These test sets reflected a variety of
scanner vendors, image acquisition protocols, geographic regions, demographic backgrounds, and
clinical diagnoses.
510(k) Summary 9 / 11 Neurophet SCALE PETT1-SegEngine: The T1-SegEngine module was validated using datasets collected from multiple
acquisition sites. The dataset included both male and female subjects, with age groups ranging
from 20 to 80+, and racial and ethnic groups including White, Asian, Black, and Hispanic/Latino.
Clinical subgroups and potential confounders including scanner vendor, magnetic field strength, and
diagnosis (clinically normal, mild cognitive impairment, and Alzheimer’s disease) were evaluated
through subgroup analysis. MR images were acquired across multiple sites using scanners from GE,
Siemens, and Philips with both 1.5T and 3.0T field strengths.
Segmentation accuracy was assessed using Dice Similarity Coefficient (DSC) on an independent
test dataset of 64 subjects (one MR image per subject) for both cortical and subcortical brain
structures. The reference standard was established through manual segmentation performed by
four trained experts. All regions met the predefined acceptance criteria (major cortical: mean DSC
0.80±0.03, 95% confidence interval [0.79, 0.81], acceptance range in [0.75, 0.85]; major
subcortical: mean DSC 0.85±0.03, 95% confidence interval [0.84, 0.86], acceptance range in
[0.80, 0.90]). Subgroup analyses stratified by sex, age, race, scanner vendor, magnetic field
strength, and diagnosis demonstrated that the acceptance criteria were satisfied across all
subgroups for both cortical and subcortical structures.
Reproducibility of T1-SegEngine segmentation was evaluated in 50 MR image pairs collected from
the same subjects scanned within a 6- to 12-month interval, using Average Volume Difference
Percentage (AVDP). All cortical and subcortical structures met the predefined acceptable range of
[1.0%, 5.0%] (cortical: 1.95±0.88, 95% confidence interval [1.70, 2.20]; subcortical: 1.87±0.80,
95% confidence interval [1.65, 2.10]), and the acceptance criteria were satisfied across all
subgroups.
PET-Engine: Quantitative SUVR values were validated against an FDA-cleared predicate
(K221405) in 74 paired MRI–PET datasets per tracer (74 Amyloid PET and 74 FDG PET) and across
acquisition sites. Excellent consistency was achieved in all regions reported to the user (all ICC
values using FDG PET ≥ 0.937 and using Amyloid PET ≥ 0.990; acceptance criterion: ≥ 0.6).
Furthermore, supporting analysis in the worst-case ROIs demonstrated that all paired SUVR
differences fell within the predefined range of ±0.10 for both amyloid PET (100%, 74/74) and FDG
PET (100%, 74/74), confirming that the consistency criterion was met even in the most challenging
ROIs.
Repeatability/Reproducibility for SUVR were validated in 49 paired MRI–PET datasets including
multiple tracers and acquisition sites. All regions showed excellent consistency (ICC ≥ 0.859,
minimum threshold 0.75), with low variability.
510(k) Summary 10 / 11 Neurophet SCALE PETCentiloid binary agreement was validated in 176 paired T1-weighted MRI and amyloid PET scans,
with a kappa value of 0.82 meeting the acceptance criterion (κ ≥ 0.7), indicating substantial
agreement between Centiloid-based binary classification (using predefined cutoff Centiloid≥30) and
expert visual interpretation. Also, the consistency with an FDA-cleared predicate device (K252496)
showed good results (ICC=0.996, minimum threshold 0.6) and a proportion of subjects within a
predefined range of ±10CL (95.45%). Meanwhile, repeatability/reproducibility was validated in 49
paired datasets with great consistency (≥0.997, minimum threshold 0.75)
All test results demonstrate that Neurophet SCALE PET achieves segmentation and quantification
performance that is substantially equivalent to its FDA-cleared predicate devices. The device
demonstrates consistent and reliable performance across diverse patient populations and imaging
conditions, supporting its intended use.
3) Cybersecurity
• “Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality System Considerations and Content of Premarket
Submissions”, on September 27, 2023
9. Substantial Equivalence [21 CFR 807.92(b)(1) and 807.92]
There are no significant differences between the subject, predicate device #1 (K221405) and
predicate device #2(K252496) that would adversely affect the use of the product. It is substantially
equivalent to these devices in indications for use and technology characteristics.
10. Conclusion [21 CFR 807.92(b)(3)]
In according with the Federal Food & Drug and cosmetic Act, 21 CFR Part 807, and based on the
information provided in this premarket notification, concludes that the Neurophet SCALE PET is
substantially equivalent in safety and effectiveness to the predicate device as described herein.
510(k) Summary 11 / 11 Neurophet SCALE PET