March 24, 2026
JLK, Inc.
℅ John Smith
Partner
Hogan Lovells
555 Thirteenth Street NW
WASHINGTON, DC 20004
Re: K252421
Trade/Device Name: JLK-NCCT
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2080
Regulation Name: Radiological Computer Aided Triage And Notification Software
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QAS
Dated: July 25, 2025
Received: February 19, 2026
Dear John Smith:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK252421 - John Smith Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K252421 - John Smith Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
for
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director, Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureIndications for Use
Please type in the marketing application/submission number, if it is known. This
K252421 ?
textbox will be left blank for original applications/submissions.
.
Please provide the device trade name(s). ?.
H.e
JLK-NCCT
lp.
HTee
lxpt
Please provide your Indications for Use below. ?
Te
.
xt
JLK-NCCT is a radiological computer-aided triage and notification software designed for analyzing non-
.
contrast head CT (NCCT) images. The software assists hospital networks and trained clinicians by flagging
He
and communicating them of findings suggestive of (1) Intracranial Hemorrhage (ICH) and (2) large vessel
lp
occlusion (LVO) involving the internal carotid artery (ICA), middle cerebral artery M1 (MCA-M1) and middle
Te
cerebral artery M2 (MCA-M2) on NCCT images.
xt
JLK-NCCT employs an artificial intelligence (AI) algorithm to analyze images and highlight cases with
detected (1) ICH or (2) LVO on an on-premises or cloud-based JLK server. This occurs in parallel with the
ongoing standard of care image interpretation. Users receive notifications for cases with suspected ICH and
LVO findings via mobile devices. Notifications include compressed preview images for informational
purposes only and not intended for diagnostic use beyond notification.
The device does not modify the original medical image, and is not intended to be used as a primary
diagnostic device. The results of JLK-NCCT are intended to be used in conjunction with other patient
information and professional judgment to assist with triage and prioritization of medical images. Clinicians
who receive notifications are responsible for reviewing full images per the standard of care. JLK-NCCT is
intended for adults use only.
Limitations and warnings:
• All patients should receive appropriate care, including a CT angiography (CTA) and/or relevant treatments
as part of the standard stroke workup. The device is not intended to rule out any medical conditions,
therefore, cases without a “Suspected ICH” or "Suspected LVO" notification should not be assumed to
exclude ICH or LVO. All cases should undergo a CTA as part of the standard stroke workup.
• The device does not replace the need for CTA or MRA in ischemic stroke workup, it provides workflow
prioritization and notification only.
Contraindications/Exclusions:
• Patient Motion: excessive motion leading to artifacts that make the scan technically inadequate.
• Hemorrhagic Transformation
• Very thin or no Ventricles
Please select the types of uses (select one or both, as Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D)
?
applicable). Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
.
.
He
lp
Te
xt
JLK-NCCT510(k) SUMMARY
JLK, Inc.’s JLK-NCCT
K252421
Prepared on: 2026-02-19
Contact Details 21 CFR 807.92(a)(1)
Applicant
 Name JLK, Inc.
 Address JLK Tower, 5, Teheran-ro 33-gil Gangnam-gu
Seoul n/a 06141 Korea, South
 Contact Telephone (+82)1038507933
 Contact Dr. Dongmin Kim
 Contact Email dmkim@jlkgroup.com
Correspondent
 Name Hogan Lovells
 Address 555 Thirteenth Street NW Washington D/C 20004
United States
 Contact Telephone (+1)2026373638
 Contact Dr. John Smith
 Contact Email john.smith@hoganlovells.com
Device Name 21 CFR 807.92(a)(2)
 Device Trade Name JLK-NCCT
 Common Name Radiological computer aided triage and notification
software
 Classification Name Radiological computer aided triage and notification
software
 Regulation Number 892.2080
 Product Code(s) QAS
Legally Marketed Predicate Devices 21 CFR 807.92(a)(3)
 Predicate # K222884
 Predicate Trade Name Rapid NCCT Stroke
 Product Code QAS
1Device Description Summary 21 CFR 807.92(a)(4)
JLK-NCCT is a radiological computer-assisted triage and notification (CADt) software that complies
with the DICOM standard. It functions as a Non-Contrast Computed Tomography (NCCT) processing
module, prioritizing triage, and notification for suspected intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) and large
vessel occlusion (LVO). Operating as a notification-only tool, it assists hospital networks and clinicians
by flagging critical cases and alerting specialists independent of standard workflows. JLK-NCCT’s AI
algorithm analyzes NCCT scans for ICH and LVO indicators and provides automated notifications to
streamline clinical decision-making.
JLK-NCCT consists of an AI-based image analysis algorithm hosted on JLK servers either on-
premises or cloud-based and a mobile software module for notification management. The AI
processes NCCT head scans, detecting suspected ICH and LVO, and transmits mobile notifications
with compressed preview images for triage. PACS integration is optional and supported when
available. The system does not modify original medical images and is not intended for diagnostic use.
JLK-NCCT integrates the JLK-ICH Model (ICH detection), LVO score Model (ischemic assessment),
and HAS Model (Hyperdense Artery Sign detection), supporting real-time alerts and prioritization
within hospital workflows (the ICH algorithm is the same as the device cleared under K243363).
JLK-NCCT was trained using clinical datasets from the U.S. and South Korea, totaling 3,067 cases,
sourced from multiple institutions to ensure diversity and robustness. The dataset included NCCT
scans acquired using imaging equipment from various manufacturers, such as GE, Siemens, Philips,
and Toshiba, covering a range of scanning parameters to enhance model generalizability. Data were
collected from institutions across different geographic locations, including hospitals in North Carolina
and Texas in the U.S., as well as Seoul St. Mary’s Hospital and other South Korean medical centers.
All imaging studies were labeled by board-certified neuroradiologists. This diverse dataset strengthens
the AI model’s applicability across various clinical environments, supporting its role as a triage and
notification tool for assisting clinicians in early detection and prioritization of suspected ICH and LVO
cases.
The performance of the device’s AI algorithms was validated in a standalone performance evaluation
using an independent dataset different from the one used for algorithm training. Each case output from
the JLK-NCCT device was compared with a ground truth standard determined by two ground truthers,
with a third ground truther intervening in cases of disagreement (i.e., 2+1 truther scheme). All truthers
were US board-certified neuroradiologists.
Intended Use/Indications for Use 21 CFR 807.92(a)(5)
JLK-NCCT is a radiological computer-aided triage and notification software designed for analyzing
non-contrast head CT (NCCT) images. The software assists hospital networks and trained clinicians
by flagging and communicating them of findings suggestive of (1) Intracranial Hemorrhage (ICH) and
(2) large vessel occlusion (LVO) involving the internal carotid artery (ICA), middle cerebral artery M1
(MCA-M1) and middle cerebral artery M2 (MCA-M2) on NCCT images.
JLK-NCCT employs an artificial intelligence (AI) algorithm to analyze images and highlight cases with
detected (1) ICH or (2) LVO on an on-premises or cloud-based JLK server. This occurs in parallel with
the ongoing standard of care image interpretation. Users receive notifications for cases with suspected
ICH and LVO findings via mobile devices. Notifications include compressed preview images for
informational purposes only and not intended for diagnostic use beyond notification.
The device does not modify the original medical image, and is not intended to be used as a primary
diagnostic device. The results of JLK-NCCT are intended to be used in conjunction with other patient
2information and professional judgment to assist with triage and prioritization of medical images.
Clinicians who receive notifications are responsible for reviewing full images per the standard of care.
JLK-NCCT is intended for adults use only.
Limitations and warnings:
• All patients should receive appropriate care, including a CT angiography (CTA) and/or relevant
treatments as part of the standard stroke workup. The device is not intended to rule out any medical
conditions, therefore, cases without a “Suspected ICH” or "Suspected LVO" notification should not be
assumed to exclude ICH or LVO. All cases should undergo a CTA as part of the standard stroke
workup.
•The device does not replace the need for CTA or MRA in ischemic stroke workup, it provides workflow
prioritization and notification only.
Contraindications/Exclusions:
•Patient Motion: excessive motion leading to artifacts that make the scan technically inadequate.
•Hemorrhagic Transformation
•Very thin or no Ventricles
Indications for Use Comparison 21 CFR 807.92(a)(5)
Both the subject and predicate device have the same intended use, namely, to assist clinicians in
identifying and communicating images of specific patients to a specialist, independent of the standard
of care workflow, act solely as notification tools, and do not modify original medical images, instead
providing compressed preview images for triage.
Both JLK-NCCT and the predicate device employ advanced artificial intelligence and machine learning
(AI/ML) algorithms to analyze non-contrast CT (NCCT) imaging of the head. However, the primary
differences lie in notification channels. While the predicate device supports PACS, email, and mobile
notifications, JLK-NCCT uses only mobile alerts, aligning with standard hospital workflows. These
differences do not impact safety or effectiveness.
Technological Comparison 21 CFR 807.92(a)(6)
The JLK-NCCT software is designed with an architecture similar to the predicate device, Rapid NCCT
Stroke (K222884). Both systems process non-contrast CT (NCCT) images in DICOM format using
artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) algorithms to detect suspected conditions and
prioritize workflow through automated notifications. These notifications assist clinicians in identifying
potential cases of LVO and ICH, facilitating early intervention while maintaining standard clinical
workflows. The devices do not replace standard diagnostic methods but serve as adjunct tools to
streamline decision-making in acute care settings.
Both JLK-NCCT and the predicate device integrate mobile software applications, allowing clinicians
to receive real-time notifications, access lists of flagged cases, and review compressed, non-
diagnostic CT scans for triage purposes only. These systems operate in parallel to standard care and
do not alter the original medical images, ensuring that their outputs serve solely for informational
purposes without interfering with the diagnostic integrity of radiological assessments.
While the fundamental operational framework remains consistent between JLK-NCCT and the
predicate device, key distinctions exist in their detection scope and its algorithms. The predicate device
detects LVO in the internal carotid artery (ICA) and middle cerebral artery segment M1 (MCA-M1),
whereas JLK-NCCT expands LVO detection to include ICA, MCA-M1, and also MCA-M2. This
broader detection capability enables identification of vascular occlusions in an additional
anatomical region.
3Additionally, JLK-NCCT and the predicate device employ different AI/ML algorithms for NCCT image
analysis. JLK-NCCT incorporates JLK-ICH, hypodensity detection and HAS models, whereas the
predicate device utilizes hypodensity detection and Hyperdense Vessel Sign (HVS) models.
JLK-NCCT remains technologically and functionally equivalent to the predicate device. The
differences in AI/ML algorithms and notification channels between JLK-NCCT and the predicate device
do not introduce any new questions regarding safety or effectiveness.
Non-Clinical and/or Clinical Tests Summary & Conclusions 21 CFR 807.92(b)
JLK, Inc. conducted extensive performance validation testing and software verification of the JLK-
NCCT system. This performance validation testing demonstrated that the JLK-NCCT system
accurately represents key processing parameters under a range of clinically relevant parameters and
perturbations associated with the software's intended use. The documentation was provided as
recommended by FDA’s Guidance for Industry and FDA staff, “Content of Premarket Submissions for
Device Software Functions,” June 14, 2023.
In addition to the software verification and validation testing described in the sections above, JLK, Inc.
performed a Standalone Performance and Reader Performance in accordance with the §892.2080
special controls to demonstrate adequate clinical performance of the JLK-NCCT module. The test
dataset used during the Standalone Performance and Reader Performance evaluation was newly
acquired, and appropriate steps were taken to ensure it was independent of the training dataset used
in model development.
A retrospective study was conducted to assess the sensitivity and standalone performance of the
image analysis algorithm and notification functionality of Triage NCCT head images containing large
vessel occlusion (LVO) findings. The standalone evaluation included a total of 288 cases (LVO
Positive: 144, LVO negative: 144).
Although the Triage NCCT system is originally designed as a cascade model that sequentially
analyzes both intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) and large vessel occlusion (LVO), this clinical study
focuses solely on the evaluation of LVO detection performance. This is because the ICH detection
algorithm is identical to that of a previously FDA-cleared device under 510(k) number K243363, and
thus does not require additional clinical validation. Specifically, the study evaluated the Triage LVO
image analysis in terms of sensitivity and specificity with respect to ground truth (as established by
U.S. board-certified neuroradiologists) in detecting suspected LVO in the head.
In the standalone performance evaluation, the JLK-NCCT system successfully met its primary
endpoints on the standalone performance evaluation, the observed sensitivity was 78.5% (95%
Confidence Interval [CI]: 71.9%–84.7%) and the specificity was 90.3% (95% CI: 85.1%–94.7%). The
area under the curve (AUC) was 0.880 with a 95% CI of 0.837–0.920.
The secondary endpoint of the standalone performance, evaluated the time-to-notification
performance of the JLK-NCCT system. This analysis includes the time required to retrieve the DICOM
exam, de-identify it (if necessary), perform image analysis, and transmit the notification to both the
PACS and the mobile device. For suspected LVO cases, the system demonstrated triage with an
average NCCT-to-notification time of 1.67 ± 0.10 minutes. This result successfully meets the
predefined performance goal of 2.5 ± 0.1 minutes established by the predicate device, Rapid NCCT
Stroke (K222884). These findings support the effectiveness of the JLK-NCCT system in timely
notification, confirming that it satisfies the study’s secondary endpoints.
4In addition, a reader performance was conducted to explore Neuroradiologist non-inferiority and
General Radiologist superiority. JLK-NCCT satisfied both criteria show General Radiologist superiority
and Neuroradiologist non-inferiority. JLK-NCCT demonstrated a sensitivity of 0.792 and passed the
conditions compared to all readers (Neuroradiologist and General Radiologist) whose average
sensitivity was 0.568, with difference in Se between NCCT Stroke and all readers of 0.224 (95%CI:
0.144–0.306); Se for general radiologists of 0.633, with difference in Se of 0.159 (95%CI: 0.083–0.237);
Se for Neuroradiologist of 0.525, with difference in Se of 0.267 (95%CI: 0.174–0.356)
Also, JLK-NCCT demonstrated a specificity of 0.933 and passed the conditions compared to all
readers (Neuroradiologist and General Radiologist) whose average specificity was 0.840, with
difference in Sp between NCCT Stroke and all readers of 0.093 (95%CI: 0.038–0.150); Sp for general
radiologists of 0.796, with difference in Sp of 0.137 (95%CI: 0.070–0.205); Sp for Neuroradiologist of
0.869, with difference in Sp of 0.064 (95%CI: 0.005–0.126). These results confirm that the predefined
clinical hypothesis was fully met.
In conclusion, JLK-NCCT has the same intended use and similar technological, safety, and
performance characteristics as the legally marketed predicate device, Rapid NCCT Stroke (K222884).
Therefore, JLK-NCCT is substantially equivalent to the selected predicate device.
5