May 29, 2026
iRhythm Technologies, Inc.
Brittany Davis
Staff Regulatory Affairs Specialist
699 8th Street
Suite 600
San Francisco, California 94103
Re: K252859
Trade/Device Name: ZEUS Platform (FG0501US)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 870.1425
Regulation Name: Programmable Diagnostic Computer
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: DQK
Dated: May 4, 2026
Received: May 4, 2026
Dear Brittany Davis:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK252859 - Brittany Davis Page 2
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).K252859 - Brittany Davis Page 3
Sincerely,
JENNIFER W. SHIH -S
Jennifer Kozen
Assistant Director
Division of Cardiac Electrophysiology,
Diagnostics, and Monitoring Devices
Office of Cardiovascular Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureiRhythm Technologies, Inc. ZEUS Platform: K252859
Traditional 510(k): 510(k) Summary
I. General Information
Applicant: iRhythm Technologies, Inc.
699 8th Street, Suite 600
San Francisco, CA 94103 USA
Phone: 415-632-5700
Fax: 415-632-5701
Contact Person: Brittany Davis
Staff Regulatory Affairs Specialist
Phone: 415-757-3012
Email: brittany.davis@irhythmtech.com
Date Prepared: May 4, 2026
II. Device Information
Trade Name: ZEUS Platform
Generic/Common Name: Programmable diagnostic computer
Classification Names: Programmable diagnostic computer [21CFR§870.1425]
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Codes: DQK, Computer, Diagnostic, Programmable
III. Predicate Devices
The following predicate device has been selected:
 iRhythm Technologies, Inc. Zio® ECG Utilization Software (ZEUS) System
[K222389]
IV. Indications for Use
The Indications for Use statement for the ZEUS Platform is as follows:
The Zio ECG Utilization Software (ZEUS) Platform is intended to process, store, and
analyze electrocardiogram (ECG) recordings captured from a compatible ECG monitor,
including automatically detected arrhythmia events and patient-triggered events.
The ZEUS Platform also allows for review of the analyzed data and, subsequently, report
generation.
Page 1 of 6iRhythm Technologies, Inc. ZEUS Platform: K252859
Traditional 510(k): 510(k) Summary
Interpretation of the analyzed ECG data and the associated diagnosis is the
responsibility of the prescribing or treating healthcare professional.
The ZEUS Platform is indicated for use on patients 18 years or older who may be
asymptomatic or who may suffer from symptoms such as palpitations, shortness of
breath, dizziness, light-headedness, pre-syncope, syncope, fatigue, or anxiety.
The ZEUS Platform is not intended for detection or notification of hemodynamically
unstable or life-threatening arrhythmias or cardiac events requiring urgent medical
response. It is not intended for patients at elevated risk of serious cardiovascular events
that would require immediate intervention.
V. Device Description
ZEUS Platform is a Software as a Medical Device (SaMD) consisting of a collection of
software modules intended to process, store and analyze electrocardiogram (ECG)
recordings captured from compatible Zio ECG monitoring devices, including
automatically detected arrhythmia events and patient-triggered events. ZEUS Platform
also enables Qualified Cardiac Technicians (QCTs) to review and edit ECG data after
algorithm analysis and facilitate report generation. Reports curated with preliminary
findings are intended for use by clinicians as an aid to arrhythmia diagnosis and
management.
ZEUS Platform utilizes a deep-learned, artificial intelligence-based ECG analysis
software module present in both the predicate and subject devices. It is intended to
analyze both ECG transmissions during wear and full ECG recordings post-wear
captured by all compatible Zio ECG monitoring devices. As a part of the analysis, the
ECGDL will identify and annotate beats, beat types, ectopic runs, and rhythms/artifact
present in the ECG data.
VI. Comparison of Technological Characteristics with Predicate
Devices (Substantial Equivalence)
The subject ZEUS Platform has the same intended use as the predicate device. The
differences in the technological characteristics between the subject and predicate device
do not raise any issues of safety or efficacy as the fundamental scientific technology and
intended use is unchanged. Thus, the ZEUS Platform is considered substantially
equivalent to the predicate device.
A comparison table outlining the differences and similarities between the subject device
and the predicate device is provided in Table 1.
Table 1. Substantial Equivalence Summary Table
Page 2 of 6iRhythm Technologies, Inc. ZEUS Platform: K252859
Traditional 510(k): 510(k) Summary
Predicate Device
Category Subject Device
(K222389)
Device Name ZEUS Platform ZEUS System
Manufacturer iRhythm Technologies, Inc. Identical
Classification Class II Class II (Special controls)
Product Code  Classification Product Code:  Classification Product Code:
DQK DQK
 Subsequent Product Codes:
DSI, DXH
Review Panel Cardiovascular Identical
Prescription/OTC Prescription Identical
Indications for use The Zio ECG Utilization Software The device is intended to capture,
statement (ZEUS) Platform is intended to analyze and report symptomatic
process, store, and analyze and asymptomatic cardiac events
electrocardiogram (ECG) and continuous electrocardiogram
recordings captured from a information for long-term monitoring.
compatible ECG monitor, including After wear, ECG data from
automatically detected arrhythmia compatible monitoring devices is
events and patient-triggered processed and analyzed by the
events. ZEUS System. A final report is
generated on the beat-to-beat
The ZEUS Platform also allows for information from the entire ECG
review of the analyzed data and, recording. For the Zio AT service,
subsequently, report generation. the ZEUS System supports the
capture and analysis of
Interpretation of the analyzed ECG automatically-detected arrhythmia
data and the associated diagnosis events, as well as the analysis of
is the responsibility of the uploaded patient-triggered events.
prescribing or treating healthcare
professional. The ZEUS System is indicated for
use on patients 18 years or older
The ZEUS Platform is indicated for who may be asymptomatic or who
use on patients 18 years or older may suffer from transient symptoms
who may be asymptomatic or who such as palpitations, shortness of
may suffer from symptoms such as breath, dizziness, light-headedness,
palpitations, shortness of breath, pre-syncope, syncope, fatigue, or
dizziness, light-headedness, anxiety and patients who are
presyncope, syncope, fatigue, or asymptomatic. The reports are
anxiety. provided for review by the intended
user to render a diagnosis based on
The ZEUS Platform is not intended clinical judgment and experience. It
for detection or notification of is not intended for use on critical
hemodynamically unstable or life- care patients.
threatening arrhythmias or cardiac
events requiring urgent medical
Page 3 of 6iRhythm Technologies, Inc. ZEUS Platform: K252859
Traditional 510(k): 510(k) Summary
Predicate Device
Category Subject Device
(K222389)
response. It is not intended for
patients at elevated risk of serious
cardiovascular events that would
require immediate intervention.
Principle  ECG analysis  ECG analysis
functionality  Post-wear reporting  Post-wear reporting
 Enabling QCT review  Enabling QCT review
 During wear arrhythmia
detection and reporting
Interoperability  Zio XT device  Zio XT device
 Zio monitor device  Zio monitor device
 Zio AT device  Zio AT device
Rhythm detection  ECGDLv2 (transmissions)  ECGDLv2 (transmissions and
algorithm  ECGDLv3 (post-wear) post-wear)
 AutoTrigger Engine
Beat detection ECGDL  Identical
 QRS Complex
 Supraventricular Beat (S
Beat)
 Ventricular Beat (V Beat)
 Supraventricular Ectopic
(SVE) Couplet
 Supraventricular Ectopic
(SVE) Triplet
 Ventricular Ectopic (VE)
Couplet
 Ventricular Ectopic (VE)
Triplet
Rhythm detection ECGDL  Identical
 Pause >3 seconds
 Ventricular fibrillation
 Atrial fibrillation/flutter
 Complete heart block
 Second degree AV block-
type II
 Sinus rhythm
 Supraventricular
tachycardia
 Ventricular bigeminy
Page 4 of 6iRhythm Technologies, Inc. ZEUS Platform: K252859
Traditional 510(k): 510(k) Summary
Predicate Device
Category Subject Device
(K222389)
 Ventricular tachycardia
 Ventricular trigeminy
 Second degree AV block-
type I (Wenckebach)
 Ectopic atrial rhythm
 Junctional rhythm
 Idioventricular rhythm
VII. Performance Data
Safety and performance of the subject ZEUS Platform has been evaluated and verified in
accordance with design specifications and to support a determination of substantial equivalence
to the predicate device.
The design verification and validation testing performed on the subject device demonstrates that
the subject ZEUS Platform is in conformance with FDA-recognized consensus standards and
FDA guidance documents as highlighted in Table 2.
Table 2: FDA-Recognized Consensus Standards & Guidance Document Summary
FDA# Body Number/Version Title
5-125 ANSI AAMI 14971: 2019 Medical devices ─ Application of risk
ISO management to medical devices
13-79 ANSI AAMI 62304:2006/A1:2016 Medical device software ─ Software
IEC lifecycle processes
3-155 ANSI AAMI 60601-2-47: 2012/(R)2016 Medical electrical equipment -- Part
IEC 2-47: Particular requirements for the
basic safety and essential
performance of ambulatory
electrocardiographic systems
3-118 ANSI AAMI EC57:2012 Testing and Reporting Performance
Results of Cardiac Rhythm and ST
Segment Measurement Algorithms
5-134 ISO 15223-1 Fourth edition Medical devices – Symbols to be
2021-07 used with information to be supplied
by the manufacturer – Part 1:
General requirements
5-129 ANSI AAMI 62366-1: 2015+AMD1:2020 Medical devices Part 1: Application of
IEC (Consolidated Text) usability engineering to medical
devices, including Amendment 1
5-132 IEC 60601-1-6 Edition 3.2 2020- Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-
07 CONSOLIDATED 6: General requirements for basic
VERSION safety and essential performance -
Collateral standard: Usability
Page 5 of 6iRhythm Technologies, Inc. ZEUS Platform: K252859
Traditional 510(k): 510(k) Summary
FDA# Body Number/Version Title
N/A FDA Guidance for Industry and The 510(k) Program: Evaluating
FDA Staff Substantial Equivalence in
Premarket Notifications [510(k)]
(issued July 28, 2014)
N/A FDA Guidance for Industry and Content of Premarket Submissions
FDA Staff for Device Software Functions
(issued June 14, 2023)
N/A FDA Guidance for Industry and General Principles of Software
FDA Staff Validation (issued January 11, 2002)
N/A FDA Guidance for Industry and Multiple Function Device Products:
FDA Staff Policy and Considerations (issued
July 29, 2020)
N/A FDA Guidance for Industry and Cybersecurity in Medical Devices:
FDA Staff Quality System Considerations and
Content of Premarket Submissions
(issued June 27, 2025)
N/A FDA Guidance for Industry and Design Considerations and
FDA Staff Premarket Submission
Recommendations for Interoperable
Medical Devices (issued September
6, 2017)
The nonclinical verification and performance test results established that the subject device
meets its design requirements and intended use, that the design differences with the predicate
device do not raise new questions of safety and efficacy. During development, potential
hazards were evaluated and controlled by risk management activities, including risk analysis,
risk mitigation, verification and benefit-risk analysis. The verification and validation testing
demonstrate that the device meets all predetermined specifications.
VIII. Clinical Testing in Support of Substantial Equivalence
Determination
No clinical testing was performed in support of this premarket notification.
IX. Conclusion
The results confirm by evaluation and provision of objective evidence that the design outputs
met the design input requirements. The results of the nonclinical testing performed demonstrate
that the subject ZEUS Platform meets the requirements of established conformance standards
and performance specifications necessary for its intended use and does not raise new
questions of safety or effectiveness as compared to the predicate device. The subject ZEUS
Platform is substantially equivalent to its predicate device.
Page 6 of 6