January 29, 2026
MedicalVR B.V.
℅ Leon Doorn
Regulatory Affairs Consultant
MedQAIR Services B.V.
Rooseveltlaan 56-2
Amsterdam, 1078NL
Netherlands
Re: K252091
Trade/Device Name: Surgical Reality Viewer
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: December 24, 2025
Received: December 29, 2025
Dear Leon Doorn:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.02
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK252091 - Leon Doorn Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K252091 - Leon Doorn Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb, PhD
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureIndications for Use
Please type in the marketing application/submission number, if it is known. This
K252091 ?
textbox will be left blank for original applications/submissions.
Please provide the device trade name(s). ?
Surgical Reality Viewer
Please provide your Indications for Use below. ?
Surgical Reality Viewer is a medical imaging visualization software intended to assist trained healthcare
professionals with preoperative and intraoperative visualizations, by displaying 2D and 3D renderings of
DICOM compliant patient images and normal anatomic segmentations derived from patient images as well
as functions for manipulation of segmentations and 3D models.
Surgical Reality Viewer assists the trained healthcare professional who is responsible for making all final
patient management decisions.
The machine learning algorithms in use by Surgical Reality Viewer are intended for use on adult patients
aaed 22 years and over.
Please select the types of uses (select one or both, as ~ Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D)
D ?
applicable). Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
SurgicalReality Viewer Page 9 of 31Title: 510(k) Summary
Revision: 2.0
K252091
1 Company details
510(k) submission - Surgical Reality Viewer
Submission date 30.06.2025
Type of 510(k) Submission Traditional
510(k) Number K252091
Submitter details
Company Name MedicalVR B.V.
Company Address Markkaweg 2
2153 NB Nieuw Vennep
The Netherlands
Contact person
Company contact Chris Hordijk
Title CEO
E-mail chris@surgicalreality.com
Cell +31 6 52 29 51 00
Submission correspondent
Submission correspondent L.J. Doorn
E-mail leondoorn@medqair.com
Cell +31 61 10 66 42 1
2 Device details
2.1 Device identification
Common name Surgical Reality Viewer
Proprietary / Trade name Surgical Reality Viewer
Classification name Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Regulation number 892.2050
Product code QIH
Device class II
Review panel Radiology
Special controls None
510(k) number K252091
2.2 Predicate identification
Trade name Ceevra Reveal 3
Classification name Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Regulation number 892.2050
Product code QIH
Device class II
Review panel Radiology
Submitter / 510(k) holder Ceevra, Inc
510(k) number K222676
1 of 6Title: 510(k) Summary
Revision: 2.0
2.3 Indications for use
Surgical Reality Viewer is a medical imaging visualization software intended to assist trained
healthcare professionals with preoperative and intraoperative visualizations, by displaying 2D and
3D renderings of DICOM compliant patient images and normal anatomic segmentations derived
from patient images as well as functions for manipulation of segmentations and 3D models.
Surgical Reality Viewer assists the trained healthcare professional who is responsible for making all
final patient management decisions.
The machine learning algorithms in use by Surgical Reality Viewer are intended for use on adult
patients aged 22 years and over.
2.4 Intended use
Surgical Reality Viewer accepts DICOM compliant images from CT or MRI scanners and
segmentation files in various 3D object file formats (NifTi, OBJ, MHD, etc.).
Surgical Reality Viewer can generate preliminary segmentations of normal anatomy on demand
using machine learning and computer vision algorithms. Segmentations can be edited and / or
created using the various built-in 2D and 3D image manipulation functions.
The software is designed to be used by trained healthcare professionals (e.g. physicians, nurses or
technicians) and is intended to assist the clinician who is ultimately responsible for making all final
patient management decisions.
2.5 Equivalence
Equivalence is claimed against Ceevra Reveal 3 (K222676) which also comprises a medical image
viewer device, including segmentation features driven by Artificial Intelligence algorithms.
The device indications for use, intended use and technological characteristics are considered
equivalent, and therefore the performance of Ceevra Reveal 3 demonstrates safety and
performance for the Surgical Reality Viewer.
Ceevra Reveal 3 is, as Surgical Reality Viewer regulated under the ‘QIH’ Product Code and regulated
per CFR 892.2050.
3 Device description
3.1 Input
Surgical Reality Viewer accepts DICOM compliant images (e.g. CT-scans or MR images) and
segmentation files in various 3D object file formats (e.g. Nifti, OBJ, MHD, STL, etc.).
The DICOM files need to be manually acquired by the user from the PACS to a local storage location
from where they can be loaded by Surgical Reality Viewer.
Optionally, the DICOM files can be acquired from a service node – identified by a unique network
port - that runs on the local area network and can be connected with using a secure connection.
3.2 Output
The software generates a 3D segmented view of the loaded patient data, either on a supported 2D
or 3D screen. The user interface of Surgical Reality Viewer will provide tools to the user such as: pre-
2 of 6Title: 510(k) Summary
Revision: 2.0
operative (re)viewing of DICOM data, overlaid with segmentation, (intra/post)operative visualization
of anatomical structures, 2D-viewing, volume rendering, surface rendering, immersive and
interactive 3D-viewing, 2D and 3D measuring of DICOM image data, storing on a local device and
anatomic labelling including segmentation tools, tools for annotations, brushing or carving
(removing) of anatomical structures
3.3 Operating principle
Surgical Reality Viewer runs entirely within the customer environment, on a dedicated computer
assigned by the customer. Surgical Reality Viewer allows the user to manually obtain DICOM files
from within the customer system or from a specific location on the local area network. Within
Surgical Reality Viewer, the user selects the relevant scan series from the Surgical Reality Viewer
workspace, the software opens the scan series in the connected viewing screen to enable the
healthcare professional to use and interact with the scan data.
Surgical Reality Viewer must be installed on a system that meets specific requirements.
3.4 Hardware requirements
Surgical Reality Viewer can be installed on any computer system that runs the Windows operating
system, version 10 or higher. Additionally, the following minimum hardware requirements are
specified:
 GPU: Nvidia GeForce 2070
 CPU: Intel i7
 Memory (RAM): 16GB
Hard drive: at least 100GB free space.
3.5 Software
Surgical Reality Viewer is able to read and write image files in the following file formats:
 DICOM files containing pixel data in JPEG format;
 NifTi files, containing segmentation voxel data;
 MHD files, also containing segmentation voxel data;
 OBJ files, which contain surface meshes;
4 Predicate comparison
4.1 Indications for use
In the following overview the comparison between the subject device’s indications for use and the
predicate’s indications for use is provided. Any differences between the subject device and the
predicate device are highlighted.
Table 1: Comparison of the Indications for Use between the subject device (Surgical Reality Viewer) and Ceevra Reveal 3
Subject Device Predicate
Surgical Reality Viewer Ceevra Reveal 3
(K252091) (K222676)
Indications for use / Intended Use Indications for use / Intended Use
Surgical Reality Viewer is a medical imaging Ceevra Reveal 3 is intended as a medical
visualization software intended to assist trained imaging system that allows the processing,
3 of 6Title: 510(k) Summary
Revision: 2.0
healthcare professionals with preoperative and review, analysis, communication and media
intraoperative visualizations, by displaying 2D interchange of multi-dimensional digital images
and 3D renderings of DICOM compliant patient acquired from CT or MR imaging devices and
images and normal anatomic segmentations that such processing may include the
derived from patient images as well as generation of preliminary segmentations of
functions for manipulation of segmentations normal anatomy using software that employs
and 3D models. machine learning and other computer vision
algorithms.
Surgical Reality Viewer assists the trained
healthcare professional who is responsible for It is also intended as software for preoperative
making all final patient management decisions. surgical planning, and as software for the
intraoperative display of the aforementioned
The machine learning algorithms in use by multi-dimensional digital images. Ceevra
Surgical Reality Viewer are intended for use on Reveal 3 is designed for use by healthcare
adult patients aged 22 years and over. professionals and is intended to assist the
clinician who is responsible for making all final
patient management decisions.
The machine learning algorithms in use by
Ceevra Reveal 3 are for use only for adult
patients (22 and over). Three-dimensional
images for patients under the age of 22 or of
unknown age will be generated without the use
of any machine learning algorithms.
The subject device and the predicate device are indicated to view medical images pre- and
intraoperatively acquired by CT or MRI, generate segmentations of supported normal anatomical
structures, and indicated for use by the same user, and on the same patient group, with a view to
assist the clinician.
4.2 Technological characteristics
In the following Table 2, the technological characteristics of the subject device (Surgical Reality
Viewer) are compared against the technological characteristics of the predicate device (Ceevra
Reveal 3). Any differences between the two devices are evaluated for their potential implications
with regards to the demonstration of Safety and or Performance.
Table 2: Comparison of Technological Characteristics between the Subject device (Surgical Reality Viewer) and the Predicate
Device (Ceevra Reveal 3)
Subject Device Predicate
Technological characteristic
Surgical Reality Viewer Ceevra Reveal 3
(K252091) (K222676)
Product Code QIH QIH
Product Regulation 892.2050 892.2050
Supported Imaging Modalities CT & MRI CT & MRI
Intended Users Healthcare Professionals Healthcare Professionals
Interactive manipulation Interactive manipulation
Image Analysis Features
and 3D visualization and 3D visualization
Pre-operative viewing of 3D images Yes Yes
4 of 6Title: 510(k) Summary
Revision: 2.0
Intra-operative viewing of 3D images Yes Yes
Real-time inter-operative guidance,
navigation or otherwise integrated with No No
surgical instruments
Segmentation work performed by Medical Professional Internal Operator
Built-in features for end-user to
No No
compare CT/MRI to device output
Quantitative outputs calculated by
No No
device
Semi-automatic segmentation of
No No
abnormal anatomy
Semi-automatic segmentation of
Yes Yes
supported normal anatomy
The subject device includes the exact same technological characteristics as the predicate device.
There are no concerns identified by MedicalVR with regards to the features and functionalities of
the device which require additional Safety and or Performance data.
As the device is supported by Artificial Intelligence to prepopulate semi-automatic segmentations of
supported anatomy structures, specific bench tests are executed to demonstrate in verification
testing:
 Segmentation accuracy
 Generalizability (across different sub-groups)
In addition thereto, through user validation testing, the ease of use of the software and the
segmentations generated by the use of the subject device (Surgical Reality Viewer) will be
demonstrated.
4.3 Performance data
4.3.1 Software verification and validation
Surgical Reality Viewer is developed in line with the IEC 62304/2006/Amd 1: 2015 standard on
‘Medical device software - Software life cycle processes’ in addition to application of the supporting
FDA guidance documents on premarket submissions for software, the IEC 81001-5-1 on ‘Health
software and health IT systems safety, effectiveness and security - Part 5-1: Security — Activities in
the product life cycle’ and the FDA guidance regarding cybersecurity on quality system
considerations and content of premarket submissions.
4.3.2 Machine learning segmentation
Surgical Reality Viewer includes multiple machine learning algorithms which support the
segmentation of anatomical structures within CT chest images for 3D visualization. Each of the
algorithms has been trained and tuned on curated datasets representative of the intended patient
population.
Surgical Reality Viewer’s performance has been tested on a clinical testing dataset with a total of
102 CT images. A CT image was either part of the tuning or testing dataset and not in both. Each
study belonged uniquely to a single patient subject. Each study has been segmented by trained
professionals and the segmentations were verified by thoracic surgeons with a minimum of 2 years
professional working experience. In total 60 (n=60) scans were obtained from the United States.
Representative numbers in subgroups were included to ensure proper assessment of performance
5 of 6Title: 510(k) Summary
Revision: 2.0
amongst patient characteristic subgroups (e.g. geographical location, age, sex, ethnicity,) and
imaging characteristic subgroups (e.g. CT scanner manufacturer, contrast vs non-contract
enhanced, CT slice-thickness) and acquisition timeframes.
In total 53% of the participants where the age was reported were aged under 60 years of age, 25%
between 60 and 70 years of age and 22% over the age of 70. Of 38% of the participants, age was
unknown. From the participants for which gender was reported (n=63) 51% were male and 49% were
female. Scanner manufacturers included Siemens, GE Healthcare, Philips, Canon and Toshiba.
Ethnicity of patients in the datasets was reasonably correlated to the overall US population.
Performance was verified by comparing segmentations generated by the machine learning models
against ground truth segmentations generated by trained professionals.
The performance of the machine learning models, characterized by the Sørensen–Dice coefficient
(DSC) Conclusion. Lobe segmentation accuracy resulted in an average DICE of 0.97 (LUL: 0.98, LLL:
0.98, RUL: 0.98, RLL: 0.98, RML: 0.96), Vessel segmentation accuracy resulted in an average DICE of
0.84 (Artery: 0.84, Vein: 0.83), Airway segmentation accuracy resulted in an average DICE of 0.96,
Aorta segmentation resulted in an accuracy of 0.96, Pulmonary segmentation accuracy resulted in
an average DICE 0.85 (left segments: 0.85, right segments: 0.85).
In addition, to verify the usability and clinical usefulness of the segmentations generated by Surgical
Reality Viewer medical professionals were tasked to qualitatively score the suitability of the
segmentations provided through the Viewer. The score ranged from 1 (minimum) to 5 (maximum)
Airways segmentations scored 4.8, artery segmentations scored 4.8, vein segmentations scored
4.9, lobe Segmentations scored 5.0, pulmonary lobe segments scored with 4.7 and aorta
segmentations scored 5.0.
5 Conclusion
Surgical Reality Viewer is deemed to be substantially equivalent to its predicate device based on
indications for use, technological characteristics and performance testing.
The Surgical Reality Viewer does not raise new questions related to safety or effectiveness.
6 Version History
Version control is handled electronically. In this chapter, only a summary between the different
versions is provided to help the reader easily identify the differences between versions.
Version Summary of change
2.0 Updated to reflect the required changes for the 510(k) summary
1.0 Initial version.
6 of 6