April 10, 2026
AItewan BioMedical Technology Inc.
Ya-Xuan Yang
7F., No. 1, Yumin 6th Rd., Beitou Dist.
Taipei,
Taiwan
Re: K252190
Trade/Device Name: DeepBT Detector-Plus
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QKB
Dated: July 14, 2025
Received: July 14, 2025
Dear Ya-Xuan Yang:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.04
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK252190 - Ya-Xuan Yang Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K252190 - Ya-Xuan Yang Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Lora D. Weidner, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Radiation Therapy Team
DHT8C: Division of Radiological
Imaging and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K252190
Device Name
DeepBT Detector-Plus
Indications for Use (Describe)
DeepBT Detector-Plus is a software system intended to assist trained medical professionals, during their clinical
workflows of radiation therapy treatment planning, by providing initial object contours of diagnosed brain tumors (i.e.,
region of interest, ROI). The system can utilize both axial T1-weighted contrast-enhanced brain MRI images (T1W+C)
and T2-weighted (T2W) MRI images, allowing the model to reference both imaging sequences simultaneously. The
generated contours are applied on the T1W+C images, which serve as the primary imaging reference for radiation therapy
treatment planning.
DeepBT Detector-Plus, which utilizes an artificial intelligence algorithm (i.e., deep learning neural networks), is intended
to be used only on adult patients for generating Gross Tumor Volume (GTV) contours of brain metastases, meningiomas,
and acoustic neuromas; It is not intended to be used with images of other types of brain tumors. When inputting images,
DeepBT Detector-Plus can take either single-parameter images (T1W+C) or bi-parameter images (T1W+C and T2W) for
interpretation.
Medical professionals must finalize (confirm or modify) the contours generated by DeepBT Detector-Plus using an
external platform available at the facility that supports DICOM-compatible viewing and editing, such as a Treatment
Planning System (TPS) or a DICOM-compliant workstation, before using them for treatment.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(k) Summary – K252190
1. Submitter
Submitter AItewan BioMedical Technology Inc.
7F., No. 1, Yumin 6th Rd., Beitou Dist.
Address
Taipei City 112042, Taiwan (R.O.C)
Contact Person Wan-Yuo Guo, M.D., Ph.D. (President)
Contact Information 886-2-2826-7169
ra.dept@aitewan-bio.com
Date Prepared April 10, 2026
2. Proposed Device
Trade Name DeepBT Detector-Plus
Common Name Radiological image processing software for radiation therapy
Classification Name Medical image management and processing system
Regulatory Number 21 CFR 892.2050
Product Code QKB
Regulatory Class Class II
3. Predicate Device
Predicate Device: VBrain, K203235, Vysioneer Inc.
4. Device Description
DeepBT Detector-Plus is an Artificial Intelligence (AI) software system which consists of a Web
User Interface (Web UI) and a Brain Tumor AI Contouring module. The Web UI allows users to
select medical images and submits them to the Brain Tumor AI contouring module for processing.
Based on the magnetic resonance (MR) images selected by the user, the AI contouring module
performs inferences for three types of brain tumors (acoustic neuroma, meningioma, and brain
DeepBT Detector-Plus | Traditional 510(k) Page 1 of 9metastasis) and provides the contouring result. The result is provided in DICOM Presentation State
(PR) and Radiotherapy Structure Sets (RTSS) format for DICOM-compliant systems.
DeepBT Detector-Plus accepts T1-weighted contrast-enhanced (T1W+C) MR images and T2-
weighted (T2W) MR images. When inputting images, the software can handle either single
parametric MR images (T1W+C) or bi-parametric images (T1W+C and T2W) without requiring
manual preprocessing or labeling. It automatically analyzes the images and provides contours of
brain tumors (acoustic neuroma, meningioma, and brain metastasis).
The software is configured to work on a PACS network. Upon a user’s request, it retrieves patient
scans and sends them to the Brain Tumor AI Contouring module. The device then utilizes deep
learning neural networks to generate brain tumor contours. The results are exported as DICOM
PR and DICOM RT Structure Set (RTSS) objects and sent back to the network. These objects
allow medical professionals to view or edit the contours on third-party software systems that
adhere to the DICOM standard, such as treatment planning systems (TPS) or picture archiving and
communication systems (PACS). Medical professionals must finalize (confirm or modify) the
contours generated by DeepBT Detector-Plus before using them for treatment.
5. Indication for Use
DeepBT Detector-Plus is a software system intended to assist trained medical professionals, during
their clinical workflows of radiation therapy treatment planning, by providing initial object
contours of diagnosed brain tumors (i.e., region of interest, ROI). The system can utilize both axial
T1-weighted contrast-enhanced brain MRI images (T1W+C) and T2-weighted (T2W) MRI images,
allowing the model to reference both imaging sequences simultaneously. The generated contours
are applied on the T1W+C images, which serve as the primary imaging reference for radiation
therapy treatment planning.
DeepBT Detector-Plus, which utilizes an artificial intelligence algorithm (i.e., deep learning neural
networks), is intended to be used only on adult patients for generating Gross Tumor Volume (GTV)
contours of brain metastases, meningiomas, and acoustic neuromas; It is not intended to be used
with images of other types of brain tumors. When inputting images, DeepBT Detector-Plus can
take either single-parameter images (T1W+C) or bi-parameter images (T1W+C and T2W) for
interpretation.
Medical professionals must finalize (confirm or modify) the contours generated by DeepBT
Detector-Plus using an external platform available at the facility that supports DICOM-compatible
viewing and editing, such as a Treatment Planning System (TPS) or a DICOM-compliant
workstation, before using them for treatment.
DeepBT Detector-Plus | Traditional 510(k) Page 2 of 96. Comparison of Technological Characteristics with Predicate
Device
DeepBT Detector-Plus is substantially equivalent to the predicate device VBrain (K203235).
The proposed device, DeepBT Detector-Plus, and the predicate, VBrain, are both software devices
that utilize deep learning algorithms for brain tumor detection and contouring, focusing on the
same three types of brain tumors: brain metastases, meningiomas, and acoustic neuromas. Both
systems are designed to assist in radiation therapy treatment planning. They integrate with PACS
networks, enabling automated tumor contouring, and output results in DICOM standard formats,
allowing medical professionals to view or edit the contours using DICOM-compatible third-party
systems.
The only difference between the two products is that DeepBT Detector-Plus can perform AI model
inference based on single-parametric MR images (T1W+C) as well as bi-parametric MR images
(T1W+C and T2W). Since T2W images can provide higher signal intensity in certain cases, such
as cystic tumors, they offer improved tumor boundary identification, allowing DeepBT Detector-
Plus to deliver more accurate tumor contours. In contrast, VBrain supports only single-parametric
images (T1W+C). However, both products focus on the same tumor types and intended clinical
use, and there is no fundamental difference in their clinical applications.
Although there are differences in technical characteristics, the performance of DeepBT Detector-
Plus on both single-parametric and bi-parametric images has been validated, and the results are
comparable to those of the predicate device. Furthermore, the contours predicted by both products
require confirmation or modification by medical professionals before they can be used for
treatment planning. The information provided by both products is intended as support and does
not aim to alter the clinical workflow of medical professionals. Therefore, the new product does
not raise any new concerns regarding substantial equivalence.
Please refer to Table 1 for a comparison of the intended use and key technical characteristics of
the proposed device and the predicate device.
Table 1. Comparison with Predicate Device
Item Proposed Device Predicate Device
Company AItewan BioMedical Technology Inc. Vysioneer Inc.
Device Name DeepBT Detector-Plus VBrain
510(k) Number Pending K203235
DeepBT Detector-Plus | Traditional 510(k) Page 3 of 9Regulation No. 21 CFR 892.2050 21 CFR 892.2050
Classification II II
Product Code QKB QKB
Intended DeepBT Detector-Plus is a software VBrain is a software device
Use/Indication system intended to assist trained intended to assist trained medical
of Use medical professionals, during their professionals, during their
clinical workflows of radiation therapy clinical workflows of radiation
treatment planning, by providing initial therapy treatment planning, by
object contours of diagnosed brain providing initial object contours
tumors (i.e., region of interest, ROI). of known (diagnosed) brain
The system can utilize both axial T1- tumors (i.e., region of interest,
weighted contrast-enhanced brain MRI ROI) on axial T1 contrast-
images (T1W+C) and T2-weighted enhanced brain MRI images.
(T2W) MRI images, allowing the model
to reference both imaging sequences VBrain uses an artificial
simultaneously for improved accuracy. intelligence algorithm (i.e., deep
The generated contours are applied on learning neural networks) to
the T1W+C images, which serve as the contour (segment) brain tumor
primary imaging reference for radiation on MRI images for trained
therapy treatment planning. medical professionals’ attention,
which is meant for informational
DeepBT Detector-Plus, which utilizes purposes only and not intended
an artificial intelligence algorithm (i.e., for replacing their current
deep learning neural networks), is standard practice of manual
intended to be used only on adult contouring process. VBrain does
patients for generating Gross Tumor not alter the original MRI image,
Volume (GTV) contours of brain nor does it intend to be used to
metastases, meningiomas, and acoustic detect tumors for diagnosis.
neuromas; It is not intended to be used VBrain is intended only for
with images of other types of brain generating Gross Tumor Volume
tumors. When inputting images, (GTV) contours of brain
DeepBT Detector-Plus can take either metastases, meningiomas, and
single-parameter images (T1W+C) or acoustic neuromas on axial T1
bi-parameter images (T1W+C and contrast-enhanced MRI images;
T2W) for interpretation. It is not intended to be used with
images of other brain tumors.
The user must know the tumor
DeepBT Detector-Plus | Traditional 510(k) Page 4 of 9Medical professionals must finalize type when they use VBrain.
(confirm or modify) the contours VBrain is intended to be used on
generated by DeepBT Detector-Plus adult patients only.
using an external platform available at
the facility that supports DICOM- Medical professionals must
compatible viewing and editing, such as finalize (confirm or modify) the
a Treatment Planning System (TPS) or a contours generated by VBrain,
DICOM-compliant workstation, before as necessary, using an external
using them for treatment. platform available at the facility
that supports DICOM-RT
viewing/editing functions, such
as image visualization software
and treatment planning system.
Segmentation Deep learning Deep learning
(Contouring)
Technology
Operating Linux operating system Linux operating system
System
User Trained medical professionals include, Trained medical professionals
Population but are not limited to, radiation including, but not limited to,
oncologists, neurosurgeons, and radiologists, oncologists,
radiologists. physicians, medical
technologists, dosimetrists, and
physicists.
Supported Axial T1-weighted contrast-enhanced Axial T1 contrast-enhanced
Modalities brain MRI images (T1W+C) and T2- MRI images
weighted (T2W) MRI images can be
used. The system can accept either
T1W+C images alone or both T1W+C
and T2W images simultaneously.
Localization Qualified brain tumors - brain Qualified brain tumors - brain
and Definition metastases, meningiomas, and acoustic metastases, meningiomas, and
of Objects neuromas. acoustic neuromas.
(ROI)
DeepBT Detector-Plus | Traditional 510(k) Page 5 of 9Performance To evaluate the standalone analytical To support the intended use of
Testing performance of DeepBT Detector-Plus the VBrain AI software for brain
in detecting and contouring brain tumor contouring
tumors on T1-weighted contrast- (segmentation) performance,
enhanced (T1W+C) and T2-weighted Vysioneer conducted a
(T2W) magnetic resonance (MR) retrospective, blinded,
images, and to demonstrate Substantial multicenter, multinational study
Equivalence (SE) to the predicate, with VBrain. The test dataset
AItewan conducted a multicenter, comprised 116 cases with 238
multinational, retrospective standalone tumors acquired from 4
performance study. The test dataset institutions (3 in the US and 1
consisted of 136 cases with 360 tumors, non-US).
acquired from 16 different institutions
(15 in the US and 1 non-US). The The evaluation involved five
performance of DeepBT Detector-Plus metrics: (1) lesion-wise
was assessed based on single-parameter sensitivity, (2) false-positive
MR images (T1W+C) and bi-parametric rate, (3) lesion-wise Dice
MR images (T1W+C and T2W). coefficient, (4) average
Hausdorff distance, and (5)
The evaluation involved comparing average centroid distance
tumor contouring results from DeepBT between VBrain’s segmentation
Detector-Plus with ground truth using and clinicians’ segmentation.
five metrics: (1) lesion-wise sensitivity, All the metrics were
(2) false positive rate, (3) lesion-wise demonstrated to pass the
Dice coefficient, (4) balanced average performance goals.
Hausdorff distance, and (5) centroid
distance. The results demonstrate that Software verification and
the performance of the proposed device validation testing were
is comparable with that of the predicate conducted, and documentation
device. was provided following the
FDA’s Guidance for Industry
Software verification and validation and FDA Staff, “Guidance for
testing were conducted, and the Content of Premarket
documentation was provided following Submissions for Software
the FDA’s Guidance for Industry and Contained in Medical Devices”
FDA Staff, “Content of Premarket for software devices identified
Submissions for Device Software as Major Level of Concern
Functions” for software devices related to radiation therapy
identified as “Enhanced Documentation treatment planning.
DeepBT Detector-Plus | Traditional 510(k) Page 6 of 9Level”.
7. Performance Data
7.1 Software Verification and Validation
Software verification and validation (V&V) testing were performed, and the corresponding
documentation was provided in accordance with the FDA guidance, "Content of Premarket
Submissions for Device Software Functions," issued on June 14, 2023, adhering to the Enhanced
Documentation Level for software functions related to radiation therapy treatment planning.
In addition, the following standards have also been consulted during the software V&V activities:
• IEC 62304:2006/A1:2016 Medical device software - Software life cycle processes
• ISO 14971:2019 Medical devices - Applications of risk management to medical device
The Software V&V activities and documentation are based on the Enhanced Documentation Level.
7.2 Training Dataset
The DeepBT Detector-Plus model was trained on a retrospective dataset comprising 2,867 patients,
including 510 cases of acoustic neuroma, 1,180 cases of meningioma, and 1,177 cases of brain
metastasis. All patients underwent Gamma Knife radiosurgery. The training dataset included
imaging acquired at the time of treatment for all patients, and follow-up imaging when available.
The dataset was collected from two major medical centers in Taiwan between 1999 and 2022.
7.3 Standalone Performance Testing
AItewan conducted a multicenter, multinational, retrospective study to evaluate the standalone
analytical performance of the artificial intelligence software for assisting in brain tumor contouring
on T1W+C and T2W MR imaging. The test dataset consisted of 136 cases with 360 lesions,
retrospectively collected from 16 different institutions (15 in the US and 1 non-US). The ground
truth was established by the consensus of three US board-certified radiologists with fellowship
training in neuroradiology or MRI with at least five years of post-fellowship experience.
By comparing tumor contouring between DeepBT Detector-Plus and the ground truth, five metrics
were evaluated: (1) lesion-wise sensitivity, (2) false positive rate, (3) lesion-wise Dice coefficient,
(4) balanced average Hausdorff distance (bAHD), and (5) centroid distance of DeepBT Detector-
Plus’s inference results for the brain tumors.
DeepBT Detector-Plus | Traditional 510(k) Page 7 of 9The standalone performance evaluation was conducted using a pre-specified statistical analysis
plan. Lesion-wise sensitivity was used for sample size determination based on a statistical
hypothesis testing approach. Performance of DeepBT Detector-Plus was evaluated by comparison
to the predicate device across multiple metrics, including lesion-wise sensitivity, false positive rate,
lesion-wise Dice coefficient, and centroid distance. A predefined success threshold for bAHD was
established as ≤ 5.6%, based on the upper bound of the 95% confidence interval of the predicate
device’s average Hausdorff distance.
The tables below present the performance of DeepBT Detector-Plus in tumor detection and
contouring across five metrics, evaluated using bi-parametric MR images (Table 2) and single-
parametric MR images (Table 3).
Additional subgroup analyses were performed by MRI manufacturer, tumor type, lesion size, and
MRI image voxel size. MRI manufacturers included major vendors such as GE, Philips, Siemens,
Hitachi, and other manufacturers. Tumor types included acoustic neuroma, meningioma, and brain
metastasis. Lesion size was categorized into three groups: ≤10 mm, >10 to ≤20 mm, and >20 mm.
MRI image voxel size was categorized into ≤1 mm³ and >1 mm³.
Performance was generally consistent across the evaluated tumor types, major MRI manufacturers,
and MRI image voxel size subgroups within the validated ranges. Greater performance variability
was observed for small lesions (≤10 mm), which may be related to technical challenges such as
limited spatial resolution and partial-volume effects in clinical MRI.
The demographic distribution of the dataset:
• Sex: 92 Female, 44 Male
• Age: Adult, range from 27 to 99 years old; the average age is 66.8 years old with a standard
deviation of 13.4
• Race: 65 White, 38 Asian, 1 Black, and 32 Unknown
Note: Race data were not available for all cases due to anonymization.
Table 2. Performance data of bi-parametric MR images (T1W+C and T2W)
Performance Metrics Overall Value 95% Confidence Interval
Lesion-wise Sensitivity 88.6% 85.3% to 91.9%
False Positive Rate 0.537 tumors/case 0.453 to 0.621
Lesion-wise Dice Coefficient 0.809 0.793 to 0.824
Balanced Average Hausdorff Distance 3.2% 2.3% to 4.0%
Centroid Distance 5.8% 4.9% to 6.7%
DeepBT Detector-Plus | Traditional 510(k) Page 8 of 9Table 3. Performance data of single-parametric MR images (T1W+C)
Performance Metrics Overall Value 95% Confidence Interval
Lesion-wise Sensitivity 88.3% 85.0% to 91.6%
False Positive Rate 0.787 tumors/case 0.718 to 0.856
Lesion-wise Dice Coefficient 0.804 0.788 to 0.820
Balanced Average Hausdorff Distance 5.2% 2.8% to 7.6%
Centroid Distance 7.2% 5.6% to 8.8%
8. Conclusions
Based on the information provided in this premarket notification, including the intended use,
technological characteristics, and performance testing results, the data demonstrate that DeepBT
Detector-Plus is substantially equivalent to the predicate device.
DeepBT Detector-Plus | Traditional 510(k) Page 9 of 9