March 16, 2026
Stryker Instruments
Michael Mazelin
Senior Staff Regulatory Affairs Specialist
1941 Stryker Way
Portage, Michigan 49002
Re: K252282
Trade/Device Name: SurgiCount+ System
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 880.2750
Regulation Name: Image Processing Device For of External Blood Loss
Regulatory Class: II
Product Code: PBZ
Dated: February 12, 2026
Received: February 13, 2026
Dear Michael Mazelin:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: The Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) does not evaluate
information related to contract liability warranties. We remind you, however, that device labeling must be
truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) may
publish further announcements concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.04
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK252282 - Michael Mazelin Page 2
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the Medical Device File (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. SeeK252282 - Michael Mazelin Page 3
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Monica D. Garcia -S
Monica D. Garcia, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
DHT3B: Division of Reproductive,
Gynecology, and Urology Devices
OHT3: Office of Gastrorenal, ObGyn,
General Hospital, and Urology Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K252282
Device Name
SurgiCount+ System
Indications for Use (Describe)
The SurgiCount+ System Software is a multi-functional software application intended to be used as an adjunct in the
estimation of blood loss and management of surgical sponges and other absorbent items in operating and recovery rooms,
procedure rooms, and surgical centers. The system incorporates three distinct software configurations: Triton AI, SC+
Sponge Counting, and Triton QBL. Additionally, combined workflows (SC+AI and SC+QBL) are provided for use in
clinical environments that require both the tracking of absorbent surgical items and estimation of patient blood loss.
The Triton AI configuration is intended to be used with surgical sponges, software, hardware, and accessory devices that
have been validated for use with the application to estimate the hemoglobin (Hb) mass contained on used surgical
sponges. The configuration is also intended to calculate an estimate of blood volume on used surgical sponges from the
estimated Hb mass and a user-entered patient Hb value. The validated surgical sponges, hardware, software, accessory
devices and Hb mass ranges are listed in the Instructions for Use.
The SC+ Sponge Counting configuration is intended for use as an adjunctive technology for augmenting the manual
process of counting, displaying, and recording the number of RFID-tagged absorbent articles used during surgical
procedures, and providing a non-invasive means of locating RFID-tagged absorbent articles within an operating room and
surgical sites.
The Triton QBL configuration is intended to be used to record the weight of used surgical sponges and other absorbent
items in order to calculate the quantity of fluid volume on the sponges/absorbent items.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFPage 1 of 3
K252282
510(k) Summary – K252282
807.92(a)(1) – Submitter Information
Stryker Instruments
510(k) Submitter: 1941 Stryker Way
Portage, MI 49002 USA
Michael Mazelin
Sr. Staff Regulatory Affairs Specialist
Stryker Instruments
Contact Information:
1941 Stryker Way
Portage, MI 49002
269-369-1909
Date Summary Prepared: March 13, 2026
807.92(a)(2) – Name of Device
Trade Name(s): SurgiCount+ System
Common Name: External Blood Loss Estimation System
Regulation Name: Image Processing Device for Estimation of External Blood Loss
Regulation Number: 21 CFR §880.2750
Device Class: II
Product Code(s): PBZ
807.92(a)(3) – Predicate Device
SurgiCount+ System – K232250
The predicate device has not been subject to a design-related recall.
807.92(a)(4) – Device Description
The SurgiCount+ System Software is a multifunctional software application intended to be used as an adjunct in
the estimation of blood loss and management of surgical sponges and other absorbent items in operating and
recovery rooms, procedure rooms, and surgical centers.
The system incorporates three distinct software configurations: Triton AI, SC+ Sponge Counting, and Triton QBL.
Additionally, combined workflows (SC+ AI and SC+QBL) are provided for use in clinical environments that
require both the tracking of absorbent surgical items and estimation of patient blood loss.
The Triton AI software configuration estimates the hemoglobin (Hb) mass contained on used surgical sponges
using an AI algorithm that analyzes the image of each sponge. It also calculates an estimate of blood volume on
used surgical sponges from the estimated Hb mass and a user-entered patient Hb value. Workflow steps allow
users to scan, identify, and count RFID-tagged surgical sponges and other absorbent items, and to locate missing
surgical sponges inside the operating room and, noninvasively, in surgical sites.
The SaMD product includes the following nonmedical device and consumable and hardware accessories: a mobile
device (Apple iPad Pro), RFID-tagged surgical sponges/absorbent items, an RFID reader, a Bluetooth-enabled
Stryker Instruments
1941 Stryker, Portage, MI 49002 www.stryker.comPage 2 of 3
K252282
scale, and a stand (or optional wall mount) that houses the hardware accessories and connects the accessory
devices to electrical power.
807.92(a)(5) – Intended Use/Indications for Use of the Device
The SurgiCount+ System Software is a multi-functional software application intended to be used as an adjunct in
the estimation of blood loss and management of surgical sponges and other absorbent items in operating and
recovery rooms, procedure rooms, and surgical centers. The system incorporates three distinct software
configurations: Triton AI, SC+ Sponge Counting, and Triton QBL. Additionally, combined workflows (SC+AI
and SC+QBL) are provided for use in clinical environments that require both the tracking of absorbent surgical
items and estimation of patient blood loss.
The Triton AI configuration is intended to be used with surgical sponges, software, hardware, and accessory
devices that have been validated for use with the application to estimate the hemoglobin (Hb) mass contained on
used surgical sponges. The configuration is also intended to calculate an estimate of blood volume on used
surgical sponges from the estimated Hb mass and a user-entered patient Hb value. The validated surgical sponges,
hardware, software, accessory devices and Hb mass ranges are listed in the Instructions for Use.
The SC+ Sponge Counting configuration is intended for use as an adjunctive technology for augmenting the
manual process of counting, displaying, and recording the number of RFID-tagged absorbent articles used during
surgical procedures, and providing a non-invasive means of locating RFID-tagged absorbent articles within an
operating room and surgical sites.
The Triton QBL configuration is intended to be used to record the weight of used surgical sponges and other
absorbent items in order to calculate the quantity of fluid volume on the sponges/absorbent items.
807.92(a)(5) – Indications for Use Comparison
The Indications for Use Statement has been updated to specify the general environments of use, and the intended
use of the subject device as compared to the predicate device remains the same (i.e., an adjunctive technology that
is intended to be used to estimate external patient blood loss and in the management of surgical sponges). Key
changes include the clarification of the general environments of use (i.e., operating and recovery rooms,
procedure rooms, and surgical centers), which does not raise different questions of safety and effectiveness as
compared to the predicate device.
807.92(a)(6) Summary of the Technological Characteristics of the Device Compared to the Predicate Device
The subject and predicate device have identical technological characteristics, and there have been no changes to
the design, software, and fundamental scientific technology.
807.92(b)(1) – Nonclinical Testing to Support Submission
The function and performance of the subject device was leveraged from the predicate device through non-clinical
design verification and validation testing in conjunction with risk assessment.
The results demonstrate that the subject device successfully meets the requirements of its intended use.
807.92(b)(2) – Clinical Testing
No clinical testing was provided to support this submission.
Stryker Instruments
1941 Stryker, Portage, MI 49002 www.stryker.comPage 3 of 3
K252282
807.92(b)(3) – Conclusions Drawn from Testing Performed
The subject device, in comparison with the legally marketed predicate device, has the same design, software, and
fundamental scientific technology. Verification and Validation testing and Risk assessment leveraged from the
predicate device demonstrates that the device is as safe and effective as the predicate device.
Conclusion:
The information presented above demonstrates that the SurgiCount+ System is as safe and effective as the
predicate device and supports a determination of substantial equivalence.
Stryker Instruments
1941 Stryker, Portage, MI 49002 www.stryker.com