February 11, 2026
Ai4medimaging Medical Solutions S.A.
℅ Sandra Soniec
Managing Director
Meditec Consulting GmbH
Obermoosstrasse 23
Boll, Berne 3067
Switzerland
Re: K252084
Trade/Device Name: AI4CMR v2.0
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical image management and processing system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH, LLZ
Dated: January 15, 2026
Received: January 15, 2026
Dear Sandra Soniec:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK252084 - Sandra Soniec Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K252084 - Sandra Soniec Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Daniel M. Krainak, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
DHT8C: Division of Radiological Imaging
and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureIndications for Use
Please type in the marketing application/submission number, if it is known. This
1<252084 ?
textbox will be left blank for original applications/submissions.
Please provide the device trade name(s). ?
Al4CMR v2.0
Please provide your Indications for Use below. ?
AI4CMR software is designed to report cardiac function measurements (ventricle volumes, ejection fraction,
indices, etc.) from 1.5T and 3T magnetic resonance (MR) scanners. AI4CMR uses artificial intelligence to
automatically segment and quantify the different cardiac measurements. Its results are not intended to be
used on a stand-alone basis for clinical decision-making. The user incorporating Al4CMR into their DICOM
application of choice is responsible for implementing a user interface.
Al4CMR also supports clinical diagnostics by calculating flow measurements of vascular structures in 20
phase-encoded cardiac MR images.
Please select the types of uses (select one or both, as [g] Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D)
D ?
applicable). Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
Al4CMRK252084
510(k) Summary
1 General Information
510(k) Sponsor AI4MedImaging Medical Solutions S.A.
Address Rua do Parque Poente, lt 32
4705-002 Sequeira, Braga Portugal
Correspondence Person Sandra Soniec
Senior consultant
meditec Consulting GmbH, Switzerland
Contact Information Email: soniec@meditec-consulting.ch
Phone: +41 31 535 3193
Date Prepared February 10, 2026
2 Subject Device
Proprietary Name AI4CMR v2.0
Common Name AI4CMR
Classification Name Automated radiological image processing software
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name Medical Image Management and Processing System
Product Code QIH, LLZ
Regulatory Class II
3 Predicate and Reference Device
Proprietary Name AI4CMR v1.0
(Predicate Device)
Premarket Notification K220624
Common Name AI4CMR
Classification Name Automated radiological image processing software
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name Medical Image Management and Processing System
Product Code QIH
Regulatory Class II
Proprietary Name cvi42 Software Application
(Reference Device)
Manufactured by Circle Cardiovascular Imaging, Inc.
Premarket Notification K242781
Common Name cvi42
Classification Name Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Regulation Number 892.2050
Regulation Name Medical Image Management and Processing System
Product Code QIH, LLZ
Regulatory Class II
AI4CMR v2.0 Special 510(k) Page 1 of 94 Device Description
AI4CMR v2.0 is a cloud-based solution designed to integrate to any third-party DICOM viewer
application where the DICOM viewer serves as the user interface and the interface to a PACS or
scanner for AI4CMR. AI4CMR is implemented as a plug-in to the DICOM viewer by the user and
automatically processes and analyses cardiac MR images received by the DICOM viewer to quantify
relevant cardiac function metrics as well as analytical flow quantification and makes the information
available to the user at the user’s discretion.
The following are the cardiac function metrics quantified and reported by the software:
Quantitative Analysis
The subject device performs the following:
Cardiac function measurements in cine sequences
• Anatomy and tissue segmentation
• LV/RV stroke volume
• LV/RV cardiac output
• LV/RV ejection fraction
• LV/RV end-diastolic volume
• LV/RV end-systolic volume
Analytical flow quantification in 2D Phase-Contrast Sequences (2DFlow)
• Total Forward/Backward Net Volumes
• Regurgitation Fraction
• Effective Volume per Minute
• Maximum Velocity
• Pressure Gradient
• Flow values
Reporting
The subject device enables the following metrics to be reported as desired by the user:
Cardiac function measurements
• LV/RV stroke volume
• LV/RV cardiac output
• LV/RV ejection fraction
• LV/RV end-diastolic volume
• LV/RV end-systolic volume
• LV myocardial mass
• LV/RV end-systolic frame
AI4CMR v2.0 Special 510(k) Page 2 of 9• LV/RV end-diastolic frame
• LV/RV end-systolic volume index
• LV/RV end-diastolic volume index
• LV/RV stroke volume index
• Myocardium mass index
• Cardiac index
Analytical flow measurements (2DFlow)
• Total Forward Volume
• Total Backward Volume
• Total Volume
• Total Net Positive Volume
• Total Net Negative Volume
• Regurgitation Fraction
• Volume per Minute
• Effective Volume per Minute
• Maximum Pressure Gradient
• Maximum Velocity
• Minimum Velocity
• Maximum Mean Velocity
• Maximum Flow
• Minimum Flow
5 Indications for Use
AI4CMR software is designed to report cardiac function measurements (ventricle volumes, ejection
fraction, indices, etc.) from 1.5T and 3T magnetic resonance (MR) scanners. AI4CMR uses artificial
intelligence to automatically segment and quantify the different cardiac measurements. Its results are
not intended to be used on a stand-alone basis for clinical decision-making. The user incorporating
AI4CMR into their DICOM application of choice is responsible for implementing a user interface.
AI4CMR also supports clinical diagnostics by calculating flow measurements of vascular structures in
2D phase-encoded cardiac MR images.
AI4CMR v2.0 Special 510(k) Page 3 of 96 Comparison of Technological Characteristics
Feature, Function Subject device Predicate Reference Comparison
AI4CMR v2.0 Device Device
AI4CMR v1.0 Circle cvi42 (2D
(K220624) Flow feature)
(K242781)
Operating cross-platform cross-platform cross-platform Same
System
Platform client-server client-server client-server Same
Scanners Both 1.5T and Both 1.5T and Both 1.5T and Same
3.0T 3.0T 3.0T
Image Input Supports DICOM Supports DICOM Supports DICOM Same
3.0 3.0 3.0
Data Acquisition Cardiovascular Cardiovascular Cardiovascular Same
Protocol for flow images: multi- images: multi- images: multi-
and volume phase, phase, phase,
analysis multi-slice multi-slice multi-slice
acquired from acquired from acquired from
MRI scanners MRI scanners MRI scanners
Workflows Basic 2D, Basic Basic 2D, Basic Basic 2D, Basic Similar
3D, 2D Phase 3D 3D, 2D Phase
Contrast Contrast,
additional 2D
Flow
Image Display N/A N/A N/A Same
Mode
Image Navigation N/A N/A N/A Same
Tools
3D image review N/A N/A N/A Same
Cardiac View N/A N/A N/A Same
Orientation Label N/A N/A N/A Same
Cross-reference No No No Same
indicator
View DICOM Data Yes, users can Yes, users can Yes, users can Same
view the DICOM view the DICOM view the DICOM
information about information about information about
the patient, study the patient, study the patient, study
and current and current and current
image via the image via the image via the
AI4CMR v2.0 Special 510(k) Page 4 of 9Feature, Function Subject device Predicate Reference Comparison
AI4CMR v2.0 Device Device
AI4CMR v1.0 Circle cvi42 (2D
(K220624) Flow feature)
(K242781)
third-party viewer third-party viewer third-party viewer
Secondary N/A N/A N/A Same
Capture
Segmentation of Automatic Automatic Automatic Same
region of interest
Phase Error No No No Same
Correction
Quantitative Yes, 2D Phase No Similar, Similar
Analysis, Flow Contrast comparative
Performance
Evaluation
confirmed
equivalence
Quantitative No No No Same
Analysis,
Area
Quantitative No No No Same
Analysis,
Distance
Quantitative No No No Same
Analysis, Volume
in 4D Flow
Workflow
Directional/vector No No No Same
display of the
blood particle
travel
Flow No No No Same
quantification
of valves
Automatic No No No Same
selection of the
Temporal
Landmark time
points
AI4CMR v2.0 Special 510(k) Page 5 of 97 Model Card
Model Overview Model Name: 2D Flow Segmentation
Version: 1.0.0
Developer / Manufacturer: AI4CMR
Model Category: Convolutional Neural Network (U-Net architecture)
Primary Function: Automated segmentation of major cardiac vessels on 2D
flow CMR (PC-MRI) images.
Regulatory Classification: Class II, System, Image Processing, Radiological
Short Description:
The model uses a U-Net convolutional neural network to generate pixel-wise
segmentation masks of cardiac vessels (aorta, pulmonary artery) on phase-
contrast MRI images. The segmentation supports calculation of flow and
velocity profiles and quantification.
Intended Users AI4CMR shall be used by qualified medical professionals, experienced in
examining and evaluating magnetic resonance images as a support tool that
provides relevant clinical information. The software is not intended to
determine or recommend a course of action or treatment for a patient.
Indications for Use AI4CMR supports clinical diagnostics by calculating flow measurements of
vascular structures in 2D phase-encoded cardiac MR images. Its results are
not intended to be used on a stand-alone basis for clinical decision-making.
Model Summary AI4CMR uses a convolutional neural network–based segmentation model to
outline vascular structures on magnitude and phase images. A user-
selected seed point localizes the vessel, and generated contours may be
manually edited by the clinician.
The model is “locked,” meaning it does not adapt or change with new input
data.
AI-based 2D Flow The AI-based vessel segmentation model was developed using retrospective
Segmentation – clinical data comprising 167 cardiac MR cases from 61 adult subjects (32%
Model Development female, 68% male; age range 17–89 years, mean age 62), obtained from a
tertiary Western European hospital. Images were acquired using standard
cardiac MR 2D phase-contrast flow imaging protocols on 1.5T and 3T
scanners. The dataset included both normal and pathological cases (e.g.,
cardiomyopathies, aortic disease, and valvular disease) and preserved real-
world variability in anatomy, motion artifacts, and image quality, with no
exclusions based solely on image quality.
An expert reader (EACVI level III) independently annotated all cases using
standard segmentation guidelines to ensure consistency and algorithm
generalizability, with intra-reader reliability maintained by following
established standards.
AI4CMR v2.0 Special 510(k) Page 6 of 9In total, 296 vessel samples (ascending aorta, descending aorta, and
pulmonary artery) were included. Data were stratified by vessel type and split
at the subject level into training, validation, and independent test sets
(70%/15%/15% of subjects), with all vessels and repeated acquisitions from
each subject assigned exclusively to a single dataset to prevent data leakage.
Segmentation performance was evaluated using the Dice Similarity
Coefficient (DSC), with values greater than 0.70 defined a priori as the
acceptance criterion based on established evidence of clinically usable vessel
delineation. On the independent test set, the model achieved DSC values of
0.952 for the ascending aorta, 0.957 for the descending aorta, and 0.952 for
the pulmonary artery, exceeding the predefined acceptance threshold.
Model generalizability was further supported through multi-vendor evaluation
across Siemens, GE, and Philips MRI systems and comparison with a legally
marketed reference device.
Performance Performance was evaluated using internally validated datasets and
Summary independent multi-center data.
Segmentation Performance:
• Dice: 0.95
• Precision: 0.96
• Recall: 0.95
Agreement With Predicate/Reference Measurements:
(In multi-vendor, multi-center evaluation)
• Total Forward Volume (TFV): ICC 0.95
• Total Backward Volume (TBV): ICC 0.82
• Maximum Velocity (Vmax): ICC 0.95
Generalizability The model was evaluated on images from multiple centers and major MRI
vendors, covering a broad range of adult patient presentations. Validation
included diverse flow encoding settings and scanner configurations.
Limitations • Not validated on pediatric patients under 18 years
• Not designed for 4D flow MRI
• Not validated on congenital anomalies with extreme vessel distortion
• Performance may decrease on images with very low signal-to-noise
ratio or poor contrast.
Warnings & • The segmentation results must be reviewed and, if necessary,
Precautions corrected by a qualified clinician.
• Segmentation inaccuracies may lead to incorrect flow quantification.
• Not intended to provide a diagnosis or replace expert clinical
judgment.
AI4CMR v2.0 Special 510(k) Page 7 of 9User Interaction • The user provides a seed point to identify the target vessel.
• Segmentation contours are displayed on magnitude and phase
images.
• Manual editing tools allow correction or refinement of the AI-
generated contours.
Version History Version 1.0, Initial Release
AI4CMR v2.0 Special 510(k) Page 8 of 98 Performance Data
Safety and performance of AI4CMR v2.0 were evaluated and verified in accordance with software
design specifications and applicable performance standards through software verification and validation
activities. Software validation was performed in accordance with IEC 62304:2006+A1:2015 and
applicable FDA guidance, including Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software
Contained in Medical Devices.
Non-clinical verification and validation demonstrated that the device meets its design requirements and
intended use and is as safe and effective as the predicate device, with risks managed through a formal
risk management process. Performance evaluation comparing AI4CMR v2.0 with the legally marketed
reference device cvi42 (K242781), using both synthetic and real-world phase-contrast CMR datasets,
demonstrated consistent agreement across vendors for three primary flow measurements—total
forward volume (TFV), total backward volume (TBV), and maximum velocity (Vmax)—with intraclass
correlation coefficients of 0.95, 0.82, and 0.95, respectively.
The additional 2D Flow outputs are not independent measurements but are deterministic mathematical
derivatives of these validated core metrics. Technical validation of the AI-based vessel segmentation
demonstrated robustness against manual reference annotations (mean Dice Similarity Coefficient of
0.857), supporting accurate and reproducible flow quantification under realistic clinical variability.
Clinical validation was not required for this modification, as the feature provides deterministic
quantitative measurements without diagnostic interpretation. Safety and effectiveness are adequately
supported through non-clinical performance testing, multi-vendor evaluation, and agreement with the
legally marketed reference device. These results adequately support a determination of substantial
equivalence in accordance with 21 CFR 807.100(b)(2)(ii)(B).
9 Conclusion
Based on the information submitted in this premarket notification, and based on the indications for use,
technological characteristics and performance testing, the AI4CMR v2.0 raises no new questions of
safety and effectiveness and is substantially equivalent to the predicate device in terms of safety,
efficacy, and performance.
AI4CMR v2.0 Special 510(k) Page 9 of 9