.
May 1, 2026
Covidien LLC.
Shannon Ryan
Senior Regulatory Affairs Specialist
200 Medtronic Dr
Lafayette, Colorado 80026
Re: K253030
Trade/Device Name: Capnostream™35 Portable Respiratory Monitor (PM35MN)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 868.1400
Regulation Name: Carbon Dioxide Gas Analyzer
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: CCK, DQA, MNR
Dated: April 3, 2026
Received: April 3, 2026
Dear Shannon Ryan:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK253030 - Shannon Ryan Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K253030 - Shannon Ryan Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Bradley Q. Quinn -S
Bradley Quinn
Assistant Director
DHT1C: Division of Anesthesia,
Respiratory, and Sleep Devices
OHT1: Office of Ophthalmic, Anesthesia,
Respiratory, ENT, and Dental Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureMedtronic
Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory Monitor
Traditional 510(k) Submission
510(k) Summary
510(k) SUMMARY
This summary of 510(k) safety and effectiveness information for the Capnostream™ 35 Portable
Respiratory Monitor with integrated Nell-EQ™ Intelligent Processor (Nell-EQ PCBA) is submitted in
accordance with the Food and Drug Administration Rule to implement provisions of the Safe Medical
Devices Act of 1990 and in conformance with the requirements of 21 CFR 807.92.
I. SUBMITTER INFORMATION
Submitted By: Covidien llc
200 Medtronic Dr
Lafayette, CO 80026
Establishment
2936999
Registration Number:
Contact Person: Shannon Ryan, Senior Regulatory Affairs Specialist
Phone: (303) 204-5241
Email: shannon.ryan2@medtronic.com
Secondary Contact: Elli Bosek, Regulatory Affairs Manager
Phone: (303) 408-0731
Email: elli.m.bosek@medtronic.com
Date: April 30, 2026
II. DEVICE
Trade or Proprietary Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory Monitor
Name:
Common Name: Analyzer, gas, carbon-dioxide, gaseous-phase
Regulation Number: 21 CFR § 868.1400
21 CFR § 870.2700
21 CFR § 868.2375
Classification Name: Carbon Dioxide Gas Analyzer
Oximeter
Breathing Frequency Monitor
Regulatory Class: Class II
Covidien llc www.medtronic.com
15 Hampshire St, Mansfield, MA 02048, USAMedtronic
Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory Monitor
Traditional 510(k) Submission
510(k) Summary
Product Code: CCK, DQA, MNR
Review Panel: Anesthesiology
III. PREDICATE & REFERENCE DEVICES
Predicate Device: Predicate Manufacturer: Oridion Medical 1987 Ltd. (acquired by
Covidien llc)
Predicate Device Name: Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory
Monitor
Predicate 510(k): K200594
IV. DEVICE DESCRIPTION
The Capnostream™ 35 is a portable, 4-inch color screen monitor designed for non-invasive monitoring of
capnography and pulse oximetry. The device integrates two primary modules: the microMediCO
2
capnography module and the Nellcor™ Nell-EQ™ Intelligent Processor (PCBA). The Capnostream™ 35,
functions as a host system, integrating outputs from these modules, displaying the associated
parameters, and generating alarms when preset thresholds are exceeded.
The Capnostream™ 35 is intended for neonates, pediatrics and adults in hospitals, hospital-type
facilities, intra-hospital transport, and mobile emergency medical applications, including both ground and
air transport, unless otherwise noted. Transport environments include: intra-hospital transport and both
ground and air emergency transport: road ambulances and rotary-wing aircraft.
The microMediCO module provides the following parameters to the host system: end-tidal carbon dioxide
2
(EtCO ), respiration rate (RR), CO waveform, integrated pulmonary index (IPI), apnea per hour (A/hr),
2 2
and oxygen desaturation index (ODI).
The Nellcor™ Nell-EQTM Intelligent Processor provides the following parameters to the host system:
arterial oxygen saturation (SpO ), pulse rate (PR), plethysmograph-derived respiratory rate (RR),
2
saturation pattern detection (SPD), heart rate variability (HRV), and perfusion index (PI). The SpO
2
measurements are also provided to the microMediCO module to support the calculation of integrated
2
pulmonary index (IPI) and oxygen desaturation index (ODI).
V. INDICATIONS FOR USE
The Capnostream™ 35 monitor is a portable capnograph and pulse oximetry monitor indicated for non-
invasive monitoring of carbon dioxide concentration of the expired and inspired breath (EtCO ),
2
respiration rate (RR), arterial oxygen saturation (SpO ), and pulse rate (PR) in patient populations,
2
including adults, pediatrics, and neonates. The Capnostream™ 35 monitor is indicated for use by
professionally trained health care providers. The Capnostream™ 35 monitor is intended for use in
hospitals, hospital-type facilities, intra-hospital transport, mobile emergency medical applications
Covidien llc www.medtronic.com
15 Hampshire St, Mansfield, MA 02048, USAMedtronic
Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory Monitor
Traditional 510(k) Submission
510(k) Summary
including both ground and air transport, unless otherwise noted. Transport environments include intra-
hospital transport and both ground and air emergency transport: road ambulances and rotary-wing
aircraft.
The Capnostream™ 35 monitor with Microstream™ capnography and accessories is indicated for
continuous non-invasive monitoring of capnography-derived respiratory rate, integrated pulmonary index
(IPI), apnea per hour (A/hr), and oxygen desaturation index (ODI) values. IPI is intended for pediatric and
adult patients only. A/hr and ODI are intended for adult patients only.
The Capnostream™ 35 monitor with Nellcor™ pulse oximeter and accessories is indicated for providing
spot-check and/or continuous non-invasive monitoring of arterial oxygen saturation (SpO ), pulse rate
2
(PR), pleth-derived respiratory rate, Saturation Pattern Detection (SPD), heart rate variability (HRV), and
perfusion index (PI). It is intended for use with patients who are well- or poorly perfused, during both no-
motion and motion conditions. The device is intended to maintain accuracy in monitoring conditions in
which patient and/or pulse oximetry sensor characteristics may affect measurements, by leveraging
patient-specific and sensor-specific information to aid in arterial oxygen saturation calculation.
The Saturation Pattern Detection™ Alert (SPD) parameter is intended to detect patterns of desaturation
indicative of repetitive reductions in airflow through the upper airway and into the lungs for continuous
monitoring of adults in hospital, hospital-type facilities, during intra-hospital transport only.
The Respiration Rate (RR) parameter, when used in conjunction with a Nellcor™ Respiration Rate
sensor, is intended to be used for spot-check or continuous monitoring of respiration rate in adults in
hospital, hospital-type facilities, during intra-hospital transport only.
The Heart Rate Variability (HRV) is intended for continuous monitoring of the variability of a patient’s
pulse rate. The Heart Rate Variability is intended to analyze the pulse rate provided by the oximeter and
provide visualization of trends in the pulse rate and HRV values.
The perfusion index is intended for spot- check or continuous monitoring of peripheral perfusion at the
pulse oximetry sensor site and provides the ratio of the pulsatile blood to non-pulsatile or static blood in
peripheral tissue.
VI. TECHNOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS COMPARISON
The subject device is substantially equivalent to the predicate device (K200594). Both devices share the
same intended use, patient populations, and underlying monitoring technology characteristics; the subject
device additionally incorporates the Nell-EQ™ intelligent processor, to provide expanded oximetry
functionality. The following technological characteristics were compared between the subject and predicate
devices to demonstrate substantial equivalence:
Covidien llc www.medtronic.com
15 Hampshire St, Mansfield, MA 02048, USAMedtronic
Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory Monitor
Traditional 510(k) Submission
510(k) Summary
Comments
Device
Subject Device Predicate Device (K200594)
Characteristics
Classification II II Same
Product Code CCK CCK Same
DQA DQA
MNR MNR
Intended Use Non-invasive monitoring of carbon Non-invasive monitoring of carbon Same
dioxide concentration of the dioxide concentration of the
expired and inspired breath expired and inspired breath
(EtCO2), respiration rate (RR) (EtCO2), respiration rate (RR) [from
[from capnography], arterial capnography], arterial oxygen
oxygen saturation (SpO2), and saturation (SpO2), and pulse rate
pulse rate (PR) (PR)
Patient Neonatal, pediatric, and adult Neonatal, pediatric, and adult Same. Target
Population patients. patients. populations are
unchanged. Age-related
A/hr and ODI are intended for A/hr and ODI indication for use is
phrasing clarified
adult patients only. for adult patients age 22 and up.
without altering
IPI is intended for pediatric and IPI is intended for pediatric and indications.
adult patients only. adult patients only.
SPD and RR are intended for Indication for use of RR and SPD
adults only. is for adult patients age 22 and up.
Covidien llc www.medtronic.com
15 Hampshire St, Mansfield, MA 02048, USAMedtronic
Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory Monitor
Traditional 510(k) Submission
510(k) Summary
Comments
Device
Subject Device Predicate Device (K200594)
Characteristics
Use In hospitals, hospital-type In hospitals, hospital- type facilities, Same. Use
Environment facilities, intra-hospital transport, intra- hospital transport, and out-of-environments are
mobile emergency medical hospital Emergency Medical unchanged; subject
applications including both ground Service applications that include device language
and air transport, unless ground and air transport. clarified to describe
otherwise noted. Transport transport conditions
SPD and RR are for use in
environments include intra- more specifically.
hospitals and hospital- type
hospital transport and both ground
facilities only.
and air emergency transport: road
ambulances and rotary-wing
aircraft.
SPD and RR are for use in
hospitals, hospital- type facilities,
and during intra-hospital transport
only.
Fundamental NDIR (CO2) Spectrophotometry NDIR (CO2) Spectrophotometry Same
Technology and Plethysmography and Plethysmography
Capnograph microMediCO2 microMediCO2 Same
Module
Integrated
Capnograph EtCO2 numeric, Respiratory Rate, EtCO2 numeric, Respiratory Rate, Same
Module Integrated Pulmonary Index (IPI), Integrated Pulmonary Index (IPI),
Outputs Continuous CO2 waveform, Apnea Continuous CO2 waveform, Apnea
per Hour (A/hr), and Oxygen per Hour (A/hr), and Oxygen
Desaturation Index (ODI) Desaturation Index (ODI)
Capnograph EtCO 2 Range: EtCO 2 Range: Same
Specifications 0-150mmHg 0-150mmHg
EtCO Accuracy: EtCO Accuracy:
2 2
0-38 ± 2 mmHg 0-38 ± 2 mmHg
39-150 ±5% mmHg of 39-150 ±5% mmHg of
reading + 8% for every 1 mmHg reading + 8% for every 1 mmHg
above 38 mmHg above 38 mmHg
RR Range: RR Range:
0-150 bpm 0-150 bpm
RR Accuracy: RR Accuracy:
0-70 bpm: ±1 bpm 0-70 bpm: ±1 bpm
71-120bpm: ±2 bpm 71-120bpm: ±2 bpm
121-150 bpm: ± 3 bpm 121-150 bpm: ± 3 bpm
Covidien llc www.medtronic.com
15 Hampshire St, Mansfield, MA 02048, USAMedtronic
Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory Monitor
Traditional 510(k) Submission
510(k) Summary
Comments
Device
Subject Device Predicate Device (K200594)
Characteristics
Pulse Oximeter Nell-EQTM Intelligent Processor PMB05N Printed Circuit Board Substantially
Technology Assembly (PCBA) equivalent; Nell-EQ
Integrated PCBA is the updated
oximetry engine, with
expanded parameters.
Pulse Oximeter SpO2, pulse rate (PR), pleth- SpO2, pulse rate (PR), pleth- Substantially
Technology derived respiration rate (RR), derived respiration rate (RR), equivalent; Subject
Outputs saturation pattern detection saturation pattern detection (SPD) device adds HRV and
(SPD), heart rate variability PI as supplemental
(HRV), perfusion index (PI) displayed parameters.
Safety and efficacy of
the additional
parameters have been
verified through both
bench and clinical
testing to meet intended
design requirements.
Pulse Oximeter SpO 2 Display Range: SpO 2 Display Range: Same, the overall pulse
Specification 1-100% 1-100% oximetry specifications
SpO Accuracy: SpO Accuracy: have not changed from
2 2
Adult, Pediatric, Infant: Adult and Pediatric the predicate device
70-100% ±2 digits. modes, without motion: with the integration of
70-100% ±2 digits. the Nell-EQ PCBA.
Neonate: 70-100% ±2 digits. Including under low SpO and pulse rate
perfusion. accuracy specifications
Adult, Pediatric, Neonate, Infant are c₂onsistent with the
with Motion: 70- 100% ±3 digits. Infant/Neonatal mode, predicate device. These
without motion: 70- specifications were
Low Perfusion: 70-100% ±2 digits. 100% ±2 digits. verified across bench,
software, and clinical
Low Saturation: 60-80% ±3 digits. Adults and Pediatric testing. Verification
mode, with motion: 70- 100% ±3 testing confirmed
digits. performance met or
Pulse Rate Range:20-250 bpm exceeded requirements.
Infant/Neonates mode- with
Pulse Rate Accuracy: motion: 70 – 100%
Adult, Pediatric, Neonate, Infant: ±3 digits. Perfusion Index and
20-250 bpm ±3 digits. Heart Rate Variability
With low saturation 60- are additional displayed
Low Perfusion: 20-250 bpm ±3 80% ±3 digits. parameters on the
digits. subject device.
Adult, Pediatric, Neonate, Infant Pulse Rate Range:
with Motion: 20-250 ±5 digits. No motion: 20-250 bpm
With motion: 48-127
RR Range: 4-40 bpm bpm
RR Accuracy: ±1 bpm (mean Pulse Rate Accuracy:
Covidien llc www.medtronic.com
15 Hampshire St, Mansfield, MA 02048, USAMedtronic
Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory Monitor
Traditional 510(k) Submission
510(k) Summary
Comments
Device
Subject Device Predicate Device (K200594)
Characteristics
error) No motion: ±3 digits.
Perfusion Index Range: With motion: ±5 digits.
0 – 25.5%
Heart Rate Variability Range: RR Range: 4-40 bpm
0 – 80 bpm RR Accuracy: ±1 bpm (mean
error)
Disparate Bias Performance across diverse skin N/A – Disparate bias was not Subject device includes
Disclosure/ tones was evaluated using both disclosed for the legacy pulse bias disclosure in
Performance the Monk Skin Tone (MST) scale oximeter. subject device labeling.
and Individual Typology Angle
(ITA) measurement. Clinical studies included
representation across
the full MST range.
Disparate bias results are Testing confirmed that
included in device labeling. accuracy performance
met or exceeded
specifications across
skin tone cohorts,
including under motion,
low-saturation, and low
perfusion conditions.
This disclosure
represents the safety
and effectiveness of the
pulse oximetry
technology verified via
clinical testing.
Connectivity No connectivity is available in • LAN Substantially
subject device. • WI-FI equivalent, software
• Bluetooth and hardware changes
• RS232 were completed on the
• SD card port subject device to
irreversibly remove all
• USB port
connectivity options
present in the predicate
device. The intended
use of this device does
not depend on any
connectivity, and hence
is not impacted due to
this change.
The subject Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory Monitor and the predicate Capnostream™ 35 are
substantially equivalent with respect to intended use, indications, core technologies, and overall
Covidien llc www.medtronic.com
15 Hampshire St, Mansfield, MA 02048, USAMedtronic
Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory Monitor
Traditional 510(k) Submission
510(k) Summary
performance characteristics. Clarifications to the indications for use were made only to improve description
and support the integration of the Nell-EQ™ Intelligent Processor (PCBA) into the host monitor. Integration
of the Nell-EQ PCBA introduces advancements in oximetry performance including the addition of Heart
Rate Variability (HRV) and Perfusion Index (PI) parameters. Verification and validation testing
demonstrated that SpO and pulse rate accuracy met or exceeded specifications under monitoring
conditions such as motion and low perfusion.
₂
These updates, together with comprehensive risk management activities, confirm that the technological
differences introduced with Nell-EQ improve consistency and transparency in performance without raising
new questions of safety or effectiveness. Therefore, the subject Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory
Monitor is substantially equivalent to the predicate device.
Technological Characteristics:
The primary technological difference between the predicate and subject Capnostream™ 35 monitors is
the integration of the Nell-EQ™ Intelligent Processor (PCBA) as the updated pulse oximetry engine. The
Nell-EQ PCBA represents the latest generation of Nellcor™ oximetry technology.
The Nell-EQ PCBA provides the host monitor with noninvasive measurements of arterial oxygen
saturation (SpO ) and pulse rate (PR), as well as derived parameters including plethysmograph-derived
respiratory rate (RR) and Saturation Pattern Detection (SPD). Additional displayed parameters include
₂
heart rate variability (HRV) and perfusion index (PI), which offer supplemental context for assessing
patient status.
Nell-EQ is designed to improve consistency of accuracy across patient populations and monitoring
conditions, including motion, low perfusion, and varying sensor characteristics. Clinical testing
incorporated evaluation across diverse skin tones using both the Monk Skin Tone (MST) scale and
Individual Typology Angle (ITA), with results disclosed in subject device labeling.
The Nell-EQ introduces TrueSpectrum™ Calibration, which incorporates additional patient-specific
optical inputs beyond the OxiMax™ DigiCal coefficients and raw signal ratios received from Nellcor™
sensors.
VII. PERFORMANCE DATA
The following performance data were provided in support of the substantial equivalence determination.
Performance Testing – Bench:
In accordance with 21 CFR 807.87(g), bench performance testing was conducted on the subject device,
the Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory Monitor with integrated Nell-EQ PCBA, to support a claim of
substantial equivalence to the predicate device cleared in K200954 and to demonstrate that the device
was designed to meet the design inputs. Verification and validation testing was completed at a system
Covidien llc www.medtronic.com
15 Hampshire St, Mansfield, MA 02048, USAMedtronic
Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory Monitor
Traditional 510(k) Submission
510(k) Summary
level to ensure safety and effectiveness of the Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory Monitor with
integrated Nell-EQ PCBA.
Non-clinical testing for the Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory Monitor with integrated Nell-EQ
PCBA included the following:
• Performance
• Electrical Safety, EMC, Particular Standards
• Human Factors and Usability
• Reliability
• Software
• Hardware
• Mechanical
• Environmental
• Labeling
• Packaging
Additionally, testing illustrated the subject device complies with the following particular standards:
• ISO 80601-2-55, particular standard for capnography
• ISO 80601-2-61, particular standard for pulse oximetry
• ISO 80601-2-49, particular standard for multifunction patient monitors
• IEC 62133-2, battery safety
Biocompatibility Testing:
The subject device is not patient contacting and therefore biocompatibility testing is not applicable to this
device.
Electrical Safety, EMC Testing:
Electrical safety and EMC testing were performed on the subject device. The subject device complies with
60601-1 standard for safety and 60601-1-2 standard for EMC.
Human Factors Evaluation:
A Human Factors assessment was conducted and the Capnostream™ 35 was found to be in conformance
with EN 62366-1 and IEC 62366-1.
Software Testing:
Software verification and validation testing were conducted and provided as part of this submission as
recommended by the FDA Guidance, “Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software Functions:
Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff” (issued June 14, 2023) to support the
software changes for the integration of the Nell-EQ PCBA into the Capnostream™ 35.
Performance Testing – Animal:
No animal performance testing was required to demonstrate subject device safety and effectiveness.
Performance Testing – Clinical:
Covidien llc www.medtronic.com
15 Hampshire St, Mansfield, MA 02048, USAMedtronic
Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory Monitor
Traditional 510(k) Submission
510(k) Summary
Clinical study data were included as part of this submission to demonstrate the performance, safety, and
effectiveness of the Nell-EQ PCBA, across skin pigmentation/skin tone sub-groups. The results supported
the clinical performance of the subject device in accordance with ISO 80601-2-61. The subject device
demonstrated SpO accuracy within 2.0% A .
2 RMS
CONCLUSION
Based on the information provided in this premarket notification submission, including intended use, device
comparisons and performance testing, the Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory Monitor with integrated
Nell-EQ PCBA meets applicable safety and performance standards and perform as intended in a manner
identical to the predicate. The different technological characteristics do not raise different questions of
safety or effectiveness. Therefore, the Capnostream™ 35 Portable Respiratory Monitor with integrated
Nell-EQ PCBA is considered substantially equivalent to the predicate device currently marketed for the
same intended use.
Covidien llc www.medtronic.com
15 Hampshire St, Mansfield, MA 02048, USA