June 24, 2026
Ge Medical Systems, LLC
℅ Veronica Aguayo
Regulatory Affairs Leader
3000 N. Grandview Blvd.
WAUKESHA, WISCONSIN 53188
Re: K253560
Trade/Device Name: Enhanced Boundary for PCCT
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.1750
Regulation Name: Computed Tomography X-Ray System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: JAK
Dated: May 22, 2026
Received: May 22, 2026
Dear Veronica Aguayo:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK253560 - Veronica Aguayo Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K253560 - Veronica Aguayo Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Digitally signed
for
by GABRIELA M.
RODAL -S
Lu Jiang, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Diagnostic X-Ray Systems Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K253560
Device Name
Enhanced Boundary for PCCT
Indications for Use (Describe)
Enhanced Boundary for PCCT is a deep learning-based CT processing method used for improved soft tissue delineation in
routine head exams with and without contrast. Enhanced Boundary for PCCT may be used for patients of all ages.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFK253560
510(k) Premarket Notification Submission for Enhanced Boundary for PCCT
510(k) SUMMARY OF SAFETY AND EFFECTIVNESS
This 510(k) summary of Safety and Effectiveness information is submitted in accordance with the
requirement of 21 CFR Part 807.87(h):
Date: November 14, 2025
Submitter: GE Medical Systems, LLC
3000 N. Grandview Blvd.
Waukesha, Wisconsin 53188
Primary Contact: Veronica Aguayo
Regulatory Affairs Leader
Phone: 1 (414) 217-4331
Email: Veronica.Aguayo@gehealthcare.com
Secondary Contacts: John Jaeckle
Chief Regulatory Affairs Strategist
Phone: 1 (262) 424-9547
Email: John.Jaeckle@gehealthcare.com.
Laura Turner
Regulatory Affairs Manager
Phone: 1 (262) 200-1044
Email: Laura.Turner@gehealthcare.com.
Device Trade Name: Enhanced Boundary for PCCT
Device Classification Class II
Regulation Number/ Product Code: 21 CFR 892.1750 Computed tomography x-ray system / JAK
Predicate Device Information
Device Name: Revolution Apex
Manufacturer: GE Medical Systems, LLC
510(k) Number: K213715
Regulation Number/ Product Code: 21 CFR 892.1750 Computed tomography x-ray system / JAK
1 of 5510(k) Premarket Notification Submission for Enhanced Boundary for PCCT
Device Description
Routine brain imaging is one of the most challenging CT applications due to the low contrast between gray
and white matter, which typically results in viewing images with a narrow window width. When images
are viewed in a narrow window width, the noise variations and artifacts in the image become more
obvious. Since routine brain scanning is a frequent use case for CT, and it is a challenging application, there
is a desire to develop specific applications aimed at further improving the visualization between gray and
white matter in the brain.
Enhanced Boundary for Photon Counting CT (PCCT) is an optional, user selectable, deep learning-based
processing algorithm trained to enhance soft tissue boundaries in routine head exams obtained using
Photonova Spectra systems. Enhanced Boundary for PCCT has three strengths that the user can choose
depending on enhancement preferences. This feature aims to enhance CT images of the brain, specifically
at the borders of three main brain components – gray matter, white matter, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).
The benefits provided by this enhancement include improved boundary delineation (reduced blurring at
the brain tissue boundaries) and improved CT number stability.
Intended Use
Enhanced Boundary for PCCT is a deep learning-based CT processing method intended for head imaging.
Indications for Use
Enhanced Boundary for PCCT is a deep learning-based CT processing method used for improved soft tissue
delineation in routine head exams with and without contrast. Enhanced Boundary for PCCT may be used
for patients of all ages.
Technological Characteristics
Since the Enhanced Boundary for PCCT option is deployed within Photonova Spectra acquisition and
processing software, it utilizes the same hardware and software platform to process images. The table
below summarizes the substantive feature/technological differences between the predicate device, host
system, and the proposed device. The changes described below do not change the fundamental
technology of the predicate device or host system and do not raise any new questions of safety and
effectiveness.
2 of 5510(k) Premarket Notification Submission for Enhanced Boundary for PCCT
Specification
Predicate Device Host System Proposed Device
Revolution Apex Photonova Spectra Enhanced Boundary for PCCT
(on Photonova Spectra)
(K213715)
(K253520)
Patient Population Patients of all ages Patients of all ages Patients of all ages
Supported kVps 70, 80, 100, 120, 140 kVp 120 kVp only 120 kVp only
Reconstruction 512 x 512 512 x 512 512 x 512
Matrix Available for
Routine Neuro Soft
Tissue
Hardware Revolution Apex System including Photonova Spectra System including Enhanced Boundary for PCCT is a
CT Gantry, Patient Table, CT Gantry, Patient Table, Acquisition, software only option implemented into
Acquisition, and operator console and operator console computer. the operator console computer for host
computer. system Photonova Spectra.
Image FBP FBP with True Fidelity DL for PCCT Enhanced Boundary for PCCT is a CT
Reconstruction ASiR-V processing algorithm incorporated into
Algorithms the Photonova Spectra image
DLIR
reconstruction process.
GSI-DLIR
Clinical Workflow The Revolution Apex User The Photonova Spectra User Interface When the Enhanced Boundary for PCCT
Interface allows for modifications allows for modifications of image option is enabled, it integrates into the
of image reconstruction settings reconstruction settings based on same workflow and User Interface as
based on users desired image users desired image display and the host system Photonova Spectra.
display and workflow set up. workflow set up.
Neuro CT Enhanced Boundary (EB1-3) No algorithms specifically for neuro Enhanced Boundary for PCCT (EB1-3)
Enhancement Enhanced Contrast (EC1-3) CT enhancement.
Algorithms
3 of 5510(k) Premarket Notification Submission for Enhanced Boundary for PCCT
Determination of Substantial Equivalence
Enhanced Boundary for PCCT has successfully completed the design control testing per GE HealthCare’s
quality system. No additional hazards were identified, and no unexpected test results were observed.
Enhanced Boundary for PCCT was designed under GE HealthCare’s QMS per the Quality System
Regulations of 21CFR 820 and ISO 13485. GEHC believes that the successfully completed design
verification & validation, as well as the extensive bench testing is sufficient for FDA’s substantial
equivalence determination.
The following quality assurance measures have been applied to the development of the system:
• Requirement Definition
• Risk Analysis and Control
• Technical Design Reviews
• Formal Design Reviews
• Software Development Lifecycle
Code Review
o
Software Unit Implementation
o
Software Integrations and Integration Testing
o
• System Testing
Safety Testing (Verification)
o
Image Performance Testing (Verification)
o
Simulating Use Testing (Validation)
o
• Software Release
The testing and results did not raise different questions of safety and effectiveness than associated with
predicate device.
Summary of Non-Clinical Testing
A range of bench testing on phantoms and clinical images were performed to measure the performance
of Enhanced Boundary for PCCT. The tests include well established industry-standard IQ metrics and
claims substantiation tests to demonstrate overall image quality and support substantial equivalence of
the algorithm on the Photonova Spectra scanner’s traditional metrics.
The result of the bench testing showed that Enhanced Boundary for PCCT can reduce blurring between
gray matter, white matter, and cerebrospinal fluid without significantly changing their CT number and the
algorithm does not significantly increase the image noise, in comparison with a sharper reconstruction
kernel.
Summary of Clinical Testing
The clinical testing was carried out in the form of a reader study of sample clinical data processed using
Enhanced Boundary for PCCT software. The images were evaluated by US board-certified radiologists.
4 of 5510(k) Premarket Notification Submission for Enhanced Boundary for PCCT
Additionally, clinical testing included reader assessment of hallucination risks across a range of challenging
head CT cases, with results demonstrating that Enhanced Boundary for PCCT preserves anatomical
correctness and diagnostic interpretability even under challenging clinical conditions. There were no
findings of hallucinations.
The result of this reader study validated that Enhanced Boundary for PCCT provides diagnostic value by
improving delineation of the boundaries in routine head exams with and without contrast and improves
confidence in the assessment of soft tissue structures in the brain.
Substantial Equivalence
Enhanced Boundary for PCCT was developed under GEHC’s quality system. Design verification, along with
bench testing and the clinical reader study provided in this submission demonstrates that Enhanced
Boundary for PCCT is substantially equivalent and hence as safe and as effective as the predicate and host
devices. GEHC’s quality system’s design, verification, and risk management processes did not identify any
new questions of safety or effectiveness, hazards, unexpected results, or adverse effects stemming from
the changes to the host system. GE HealthCare believes that Enhanced Boundary for PCCT is substantially
equivalent to the predicate and host devices and hence is safe and effective for its intended use.
5 of 5