April 10, 2026
Siemens Healthcare GmbH
Jiayan Liu
Regulatory Affairs Manager
Henkestr. 127
Erlanger, 91052
Germany
Re: K253689
Trade/Device Name: syngo Dynamics (VA41F)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: November 14, 2025
Received: March 9, 2026
Dear Jiayan Liu:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
FDA's substantial equivalence determination also included the review and clearance of your Predetermined
Change Control Plan (PCCP). Under section 515C(b)(1) of the Act, a new premarket notification is not
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK253689 - Jiayan Liu Page 2
required for a change to a device cleared under section 510(k) of the Act, if such change is consistent with an
established PCCP granted pursuant to section 515C(b)(2) of the Act. Under 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3), a new
premarket notification is required if there is a major change or modification in the intended use of a device,
or if there is a change or modification in a device that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of
the device, e.g., a significant change or modification in design, material, chemical composition, energy
source, or manufacturing process. Accordingly, if deviations from the established PCCP result in a major
change or modification in the intended use of the device, or result in a change or modification in the device
that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, then a new premarket notification
would be required consistent with section 515C(b)(1) of the Act and 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3). Failure to submit
such a premarket submission would constitute adulteration and misbranding under sections 501(f)(1)(B) and
502(o) of the Act, respectively.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.K253689 - Jiayan Liu Page 3
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K253689
Device Name
syngo Dynamics (VA41F)
Indications for Use (Describe)
syngo Dynamics is a multimodality, vendor agnostic Cardiology image and information system intended for medical
image management and processing that provides capabilities relating to the review and digital processing of medical
images.
syngo Dynamics supports clinicians by providing post image processing functions for image manipulation, and/or
quantification that are intended for use in the interpretation and analysis of medical images for disease detection,
diagnosis, and/or patient management within healthcare institution’s network.
syngo Dynamics is not intended to be used for display or diagnosis of digital mammography images in the U.S.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFsyngo Dynamics (Version VA41F) Traditional 510(k) Submission
K253689
510(k) Summary
syngo Dynamics (VA41F)
In accordance with 21 CFR §807.92, the following summary of safety and effectiveness is provided.
I. SUBMITTER 21CFR § 807.92(a)(1)
Siemens Healthcare GmbH
Henkestr. 127
Erlanger, 91052
Germany
Contact Person: Jiayan Liu
Phone: +1 (734) 604-7870
Email: jiayan.liu@siemens-healthineers.com
Date Prepared: March 6th, 2026
II. DEVICE 21CFR § 807.92(a)(2)
Device Trade Name syngo Dynamics (VA41F)
Common Name Medical image management and processing system
Classification Name Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Classification Panel Radiology
Regulation Number 21 CFR §892.2050
Product Code QIH
III. LEGALLY MARKETED PREDICATE DEVICES 21CFR § 807.92(a)(3)
Predicate Device
Device Trade Name syngo Dynamics (Version VA41D)
510(k) Number K242551
Product Code QIH
This predicate has not been subject to a design-related recall.
Siemens Healthineers Page 1 of 12syngo Dynamics (Version VA41F) Traditional 510(k) Submission
IV. DEVICE DESCRIPTION SUMMARY 21CFR § 807.92(a)(4)
This premarket notification addresses the Siemens Healthineers syngo Dynamics (Version VA41F)
Medical Image Management and Processing System (MIMPS).
syngo Dynamics is a software only medical device which is used with common IT hardware.
Recommended configurations are defined for the hardware required to run the device, and hardware is
not considered as part of the medical device.
syngo Dynamics is intended to be used by trained healthcare professionals in a professional healthcare
facility to review, edit, and manipulate image data, as well as to generate quantitative data, qualitative
data, and diagnostic reports.
syngo Dynamics is a digital image display and reporting system with two flexible deployments – it can
function as a standalone medical device that includes a DICOM Server or as an integrated module
within an Electronic Health Record (EHR) System with a DICOM Archive that receives images from
digital image acquisition devices such as ultrasound and x-ray angiography machines.
The use of syngo Dynamics is focused on cardiac ultrasound (echocardiography), angiography (x-ray),
cardiac nuclear medicine (NM), CT and MR studies that cover both adult and pediatric medicine. Also
supported is vascular ultrasound and ultrasound in Obstetrics/Gynecology and Maternal Fetal Medicine
(fetal echocardiography during pregnancy).
syngo Dynamics is based on a client-server architecture. The syngo Dynamics server processes the
data from the connected imaging modalities, and stores data and images to a DICOM server and routes
them for permanent storage, printing, and review. The client provides the user interface for interactive
image viewing, reporting, and processing; and can be installed on network connected workstations.
syngo Dynamics provides various semi-automated anatomical visualization tools.
syngo Dynamics offers multiple access strategies: A Workplace that provides full functionality for
reading and reporting; A Remote Workplace that provides additionally compressed images with access
to full fidelity images for reading and reporting; and a browser based WebViewer that provides access
to additionally compressed images and reports from compatible devices (including mobile devices).
In the United States, monitors (displays) should not be used for diagnosis, unless the monitor (display)
has specifically received 510(k) clearance for this purpose.
V. INTENDED USE/INDICATIONS FOR USE 21CFR § 807.92(a)(5)
syngo Dynamics is a multimodality, vendor agnostic Cardiology image and information system
intended for medical image management and processing that provides capabilities relating to the
review and digital processing of medical images.
syngo Dynamics supports clinicians by providing post image processing functions for image
manipulation, and/or quantification that are intended for use in the interpretation and analysis of
medical images for disease detection, diagnosis, and/or patient management within the healthcare
institution’s network.
syngo Dynamics is not intended to be used for display or diagnosis of digital mammography images in
the U.S.
Indications for Use Comparison
Subject Device Predicate Device
Siemens Healthineers Page 2 of 12syngo Dynamics (Version VA41F) Traditional 510(k) Submission
syngo Dynamics VA41F syngo Dynamics VA41D
K242551
syngo Dynamics is a multimodality, vendor syngo Dynamics is a multimodality, vendor
agnostic Cardiology image and information agnostic Cardiology image and information
system intended for medical image management system intended for medical image management
and processing that provides capabilities relating and processing that provides capabilities relating
to the review and digital processing of medical to the review and digital processing of medical
images. images.
syngo Dynamics supports clinicians by providing syngo Dynamics supports clinicians by providing
post image processing functions for image post image processing functions for image
manipulation, and/or quantification that are manipulation, and/or quantification that are
intended for use in the interpretation and analysis intended for use in the interpretation and analysis
of medical images for disease detection, of medical images for disease detection,
diagnosis, and/or patient management within diagnosis, and/or patient management within
healthcare institution’s network. healthcare institution’s network.
syngo Dynamics is not intended to be used for syngo Dynamics is not intended to be used for
display or diagnosis of digital mammography display or diagnosis of digital mammography
images in the U.S. images in the U.S.
The subject device, syngo Dynamics (Version VA41F) is a new version of the predicate device, syngo
Dynamics VA41D (K242551). The Indications for Use for the subject device and the predicate device are
identical. There were no fundamental changes to the device as a cardiology-focused information and
imaging management software.
Neither the subject nor the predicate device is indicated for any specific disease, condition, or patient
population, and both are intended to support healthcare professionals in the healthcare institutions’
environment.
Both the subject and predicate devices share the same contraindication that they are not intended to be
used for display or diagnosis of digital mammography images in the U.S.
Indications for Use/Intended Use Comparison Summary and Conclusion
The Indications for Use were assessed in accordance with the following FDA Guidance Documents:
• The 510(k) Program: Evaluating Substantial Equivalence in Premarket Notifications [510(k)]
• Food and Drug Administration Staff Guidance for Industry, General/Specific Intended Use
The results of this evaluation determined that the Indications for Use for the subject device and the
predicate device are fundamentally the same. As such, Siemens Healthineers is of the opinion that the
Intended Use and Indications for Use are similar to the predicate device.
VI. COMPARISON OF TECHNOLOGICAL 21CFR § 807.92(a)(6)
CHARACTERISTICS WITH THE PREDICATE DEVICE
Siemens Healthineers Page 3 of 12syngo Dynamics (Version VA41F) Traditional 510(k) Submission
Predicate Device
Subject Device Equivalency
Attribute syngo Dynamics VA41D
syngo Dynamics VA41F Analysis
K242551
Architecture Client-server Client-server Identical
Supported • US • US Identical
modalities • XA • XA
• DX • DX
• CT • CT
• MR • MR
• SC • SC
• NM • NM
• PT • PT
• ECG • ECG
Image Within the network, the Within the network, the Identical
Communication following communication following communication
protocols are used: protocols are used:
• TCP/IP: for • TCP/IP for
communication and communication and
transport transport
• DICOM and HL7 at • DICOM and HL7 at
application level application level
• HTTP for • HTTP(S) for
communication and communication and
transport of images, transport of images,
MP4s and thumbnails MP4s and thumbnails
Image Data Lossless compression with Lossless compression with Identical
Compression compression factor 2 to 3 compression factor 2 to 3
and lossy compression and lossy compression
(JPEG and MP4) with (JPEG and MP4) with
higher compression rate. higher compression rate.
Siemens Healthineers Page 4 of 12syngo Dynamics (Version VA41F) Traditional 510(k) Submission
Predicate Device
Subject Device Equivalency
Attribute syngo Dynamics VA41D
syngo Dynamics VA41F Analysis
K242551
Imaging • Window/Leveling • Window/Leveling Different. The new
Algorithms • Edge Enhancement • Edge Enhancement AI-enabled tools in
• Digital Subtraction • Digital Subtraction subject device enhance
• Gamma Correction • Multiplanar the existing functions
• Manual and semi- reconstruction (MPR) in the predicate
automated calculation • Maximum and device. Removal of
for left ventricular Minimum Intensity 2D/3D visualization
ejection fraction (Auto Projection (MIP/MinIP) functions do not
EF, updated) • Volume Rendering impact current syngo
• View Classification Technique (VRT) Dynamics offering to
Labels – manual & • Gamma Correction the users.
AI/ML based • Manual and semi-
(Extended View automated calculation
Classification) for left ventricular
• Manual and semi- ejection fraction (Auto
automated EF)
measurements (Auto
Measures)
Quantitative • Pixel Size Evaluation • Pixel Size Evaluation Identical
algorithms • Distance line • Distance line
• Angle • Angle
• volume • Volume
Decision Ability to interface with a Ability to interface with a Identical
Support third-party rules engine third-party rules engine
(BizTalk), where rules are (BizTalk), where rules are
configured by the end configured by the end
customer to determine customer to determine
clinical relevance of clinical relevance of
selected observations. selected observations.
Customers identify and Customers identify and
store selected patient data. store selected patient data.
Orchestrations provide a Orchestrations provide a
trigger to pull in previously trigger to pull in previously
stored relevant data for a stored relevant data for a
given study. given study.
Reporting • Customizable DICOM • Customizable DICOM Identical
Structured Reporting Structured Reporting
• Collaborative reporting • Collaborative reporting
• Web reporting • Remote reporting
Siemens Healthineers Page 5 of 12syngo Dynamics (Version VA41F) Traditional 510(k) Submission
Predicate Device
Subject Device Equivalency
Attribute syngo Dynamics VA41D
syngo Dynamics VA41F Analysis
K242551
Access • Workplace (thick • Workplace (thick Different. Removal of
strategies for client)- access for client) – access for Multi-modality
imaging and reading and reporting. reading and reporting. cardiovascular
reporting • Remote Workplace • Remote Workplace configuration does not
(MP4 image display (MP4 image display impact current syngo
with access to full with access to full Dynamics offering to
DICOM image for DICOM image for the users.
US/XA) – access for US/XA and full
reading and reporting DICOM image for
• WebViewer – (Web CT/MR) – access for
Client with MP4 Image reading and reporting.
display) – Access for • WebViewer- (Web
review only Client with MP4 Image
display) – Access for
review only
Mobile Device Yes –Through the Common Yes –Through the Common Identical
Support Login and Portal Image Login and Portal Image
Review, images can be Review, images can be
viewed on mobile devices, viewed on mobile devices,
WebViewer, supports iOS WebViewer, supports iOS
and Android devices, but and Android devices, but
are non-diagnostic use. are non-diagnostic use.
Long Term Provide long term archive Provide long term archive Identical
Archive and retrieve of DICOM and retrieve of DICOM
studies to/from either VNA studies to/from either VNA
(Vendor Neutral Archive) (Vendor Neutral Archive)
or HSM (Hierarchical or HSM (Hierarchical
Storage Management) Storage Management)
archiving Systems. archiving Systems.
Hardware Software-only option for Software-only option for Identical
server Workstation: server Workstation:
software only (HW is not software only (HW is not
part of the medical device, part of the medical device,
but needs to meet but needs to meet
recommended requirements recommended requirements
as specified by syngo as specified by syngo
Dynamics) Dynamics)
Virtualization Provides virtualization of Provides virtualization of Identical
server and client machines server and client machines
Siemens Healthineers Page 6 of 12syngo Dynamics (Version VA41F) Traditional 510(k) Submission
Predicate Device
Subject Device Equivalency
Attribute syngo Dynamics VA41D
syngo Dynamics VA41F Analysis
K242551
Operating Server: Server: Identical
system Microsoft Windows server Microsoft Windows server
2016 Standard edition (64 2016 Standard edition (64
bit) bit)
Microsoft Windows Server Microsoft Windows Server
2019 Standard Edition (64 2019 Standard Edition (64
Bit) Bit)
Client Software: Microsoft Client Software: Microsoft
Windows 10 x64 version Windows 10 x64 version
1803 or greater 1803 or greater
Portal Website Host: Portal Website Host:
Microsoft Windows Server Microsoft Windows Server
2016 Standard edition (64- 2016 Standard edition (64-
bit), Microsoft Windows bit), Microsoft Windows
Server 2019 Standard Server 2019 Standard
edition (64-bit) edition (64-bit)
Deployment • The use of syngo • The use of syngo Different. Removal of
strategy Dynamics VA41F Dynamics VA41D Multi-modality
server/workplace in the server/workplace in the cardiovascular
context of context of configuration does not
cardiovascular cardiovascular impact current syngo
configuration. configuration. Dynamics offering to
• EHR/EHS Integrated • EHR/EHS Integrated the users.
configuration with configuration with
syngo Dynamics server. syngo Dynamics server.
• Multi-modality
cardiovascular
configuration with
native/syngo server and
syngo Dynamics
workplace with
native/syngo
components.
Siemens Healthineers Page 7 of 12syngo Dynamics (Version VA41F) Traditional 510(k) Submission
VII. PERFORMANCE DATA
The following performance data were provided in support to demonstrate similarities to the predicate
/previously cleared device.
Clinical Testing 21CFR § 807.92(b)(1)
No clinical studies were carried out for syngo Dynamics (Version VA41F). All performance testing
was conducted in a non-clinical fashion as part of the verification and validation activities for the
medical device.
Summary of Non-Clinical Testing 21CFR § 807.92(b)(2)
No performance standards for MIMPS have been issued under the authority of Section 514. Non-
clinical testing was conducted for the device syngo Dynamics (Version VA41F) during product
development. The modifications described in this Premarket Notification were supported with
verification and validation testing.
Siemens Healthineers claims conformance to the following recognized consensus standards:
• NEMA PS 3.1 - 3.20 (2023e)
• ISO IEC 10918-1 First edition 1994-02-15
• IEC 62366-1 Edition 1.1 2020-06 CONSOLIDATED VERSION
• ISO 14971 Third Edition 2019-12
• IEEE Std 3333.2.1-2015
• IEC 62304 Edition 1.1 2015-06 CONSOLIDATED VERSION
• IEC TR 80001-2-2 Edition 1.0 2012-07
• IEC 82304-1 Edition 1.0 2016-10
Software Verification and Validation
In accordance with the FDA’s Guidance Document “Content of Premarket Submissions for Device
Software Functions” issued on June 14, 2023, documentation is included within this submission for
software of Basic Documentation Level. Non-clinical Testing was conducted during product
development. Evidence provided within this submission demonstrates conformance with special
controls for medical devices containing software.
Cybersecurity considerations related to syngo Dynamics are included within this submission. Siemens
Healthineers conforms to cybersecurity requirements by implementing a means to prevent unauthorized
access, modification, misuse, denial of use or unauthorized use of information stored, accessed or
transferred from a medical device to an external recipient.
Risk Analysis, in compliance with ISO 14971 Third Edition, for syngo Dynamics (Version VA41F)
was completed and risk control implemented to mitigate identified hazards. The testing results support
that all the software specifications have met the acceptance criteria. Testing for verification and
validation for the device was found acceptable in support to determine similarities to the predicate
/previously cleared device.
Validation Studies for AI/ML-enabled functions
Siemens Healthineers Page 8 of 12syngo Dynamics (Version VA41F) Traditional 510(k) Submission
syngo Dynamics VA41F includes three AI/ML-enabled device software functions, which operate
independently from each other.
Auto EF
The Auto EF tool provides a semi-automated measurement of left ventricular ejection fraction and
volumes in apical 4 and 2 chamber views in adult transthoracic echocardiography exams. The core
Auto EF algorithms in the subject device are unchanged from the predicate device.
The test data (n = 150) represent 3 sites in the U.S. with geographic diversity from 2 different regions
and are independent of the training data used for the training of the Auto EF algorithm. The test data
are representative of the intended use population for Auto EF. They are balanced for gender and cover
an age range from 21 to 93 years (average 64 years). The BMI ranges from 16.5 to 48.8 with an
average of 27.9. Three ultrasound manufacturers (Philips, GE and Siemens) are included in the testing.
Cases across the range of cardiac function are included.
The ground truth was established by 2 experienced sonographers using a conventional manual method
to establish left ventricular volumes and ejection fraction with the “Method of Disks” (MOD) also
known as the Modified Simpson's Rule. The 2 sonographers worked independently of each other and
did not have access to Auto EF when establishing the ground truth.
The Auto EF results are exceeding all defined acceptance criteria. Auto EF has biplane results 140 of
150 cases (93.3%) with the current version. Biplane EF correlation was 0.822 between Auto EF and
ground truth. The bias is minimal with -0.2% absolute EF. The coverage plot shows that the absolute
biplane EF delta between Auto EF and GT is ≤10% EF units in 87.9% of cases.
The results of clinical data-based software validation for the subject device demonstrated equivalent
performance in comparison to the reference generated using conventional manual analysis.
Auto Measures
The Auto Measures tool provides semi-automated measurements for 8 Measurement Groups in adult
transthoracic echocardiography exams. Standalone performance testing was conducted to assess the
performance of Auto Measures compared to the ground truth (reference standard) established using
conventional methods. The following Measurement Groups are supported:
• PLAX 2D
• MV Inflow
• AoV Systolic Flow
• LVOT Systolic Flow
• MR Flow
• MV VTI
• PV Systolic Flow
• TR Flow
The data for Auto Measure bench testing represent 3 sites in the U.S. with geographic diversity from 2
different regions. They are balanced for gender and cover the age range of the intended use population.
Three ultrasound manufacturers (Philips, GE and Siemens) are included in the testing with at least 25%
representation. Each Measurement Group has a test set consisting of 150 images from unique patients.
The ground truth was established by 2 experienced sonographers.
The Auto Measure results are exceeding all predefined acceptance criteria.
Siemens Healthineers Page 9 of 12syngo Dynamics (Version VA41F) Traditional 510(k) Submission
Extended View Classification
Extended View Classification (EVC) processes 2D B-mode clips from transthoracic echocardiography
studies and assigns view classification labels to supported clips.
Standalone performance testing for EVC was conducted to assess the performance of EVC compared
to the ground truth (reference standard).
The test data consisted of transthoracic echocardiography studies including studies without and with
contrast. The test data represent 3 sites in the U.S. with geographic diversity from 2 different regions
and are independent of the data used for training of the EVC algorithm. The test data are representative
of the intended use population for EVC. They are balanced for gender and cover an age range from 21
to 93 years (average 66 years). The BMI ranges from 13.5 to 52.7 with an average of 29.5. Three
ultrasound manufacturers (Philips, GE and Siemens) are included in the testing. Cases across the range
of cardiac function are included.
The ground truth was established by clinical review using a manual method to label images. Predefined
acceptance criteria were established for EVC performance, including requirements for successful
processing of supported clips and overall view classification accuracy relative to the ground truth. The
EVC algorithm met or exceeded all predefined acceptance criteria.
The results of standalone non‑clinical bench testing demonstrate that EVC provides reliable view
classification labeling and performs as intended for use as a workflow aid in transthoracic
echocardiography image review. The test results are provided in the Instructions for Use.
VIII. Predetermined Change Control Plan
Siemens Healthineers will make future algorithm improvements under Predetermined Change Control
Plans (PCCPs) for the three AI-DSFs in syngo Dynamics VA41F:
• Auto EF
• Auto Measures
• Extended View Classification
Each PCCP specifies anticipated modifications to the device software. The PCCP also specifies the
methods to implement those modifications so that the device remains as safe and as effective as the
predicate device.
The detailed description of the modifications, testing methods, validation activities, performance
requirements, and communication to users are summarized in the tables below for the three AI/ML
algorithms, respectively.
Summary Predetermined Modifications for Auto EF
Planned Test Methods and Validation Communication to users, as
Modifications Activities needed
Modification Performance testing will be Labeling will be updated in
Group #1: Re- repeated using the same test accordance with the authorized
training Auto EF methods and acceptance criteria as PCCP to provide users with current
with additional that used in syngo Dynamics information regarding the device’s
data VA41F. re-training process and performance
capabilities
Siemens Healthineers Page 10 of 12syngo Dynamics (Version VA41F) Traditional 510(k) Submission
Modification Performance testing will be Labeling will be updated in
Group #2: repeated using the same test accordance with the authorized
Optimizations of methods and acceptance criteria as PCCP to provide users with current
the Auto EF core that used in syngo Dynamics information regarding the device’s
algorithms VA41F. re-training process and performance
capabilities
Modification Performance testing will be Labeling will be updated in
Group #3: Auto performed using the same test accordance with the authorized
EF with contrast methods as in syngo Dynamics PCCP to provide users with current
support VA41F and predefined acceptance information regarding the device’s
criteria. capabilities with expanded input
image types
Summary Predetermined Modifications for Auto Measures
Planned Test Methods and Validation Communication to users, as
Modifications Activities needed
Modification Performance testing will be Labeling will be updated in
Group #1: repeated using the same test accordance with the authorized
Modifications to methods and acceptance criteria as PCCP to provide users with current
existing Auto that used in syngo Dynamics information regarding the device’s
Measures VA41F. re-training process and performance
capabilities
Modification Performance testing will be Labeling will be updated in
Group #2: performed using the same test accordance with the authorized
Adding new Auto methods as in syngo Dynamics PCCP to provide users with current
Measures VA41F and predefined acceptance information regarding the device’s
criteria. capabilities with expanded input and
output data types
Summary Predetermined Modifications for EVC
Planned Test Methods and Validation Communication to users, as
Modifications Activities needed
Modification Performance testing will be Labeling will be updated in
Group #1: Re- repeated using the same test accordance with the authorized
training EVC methods and acceptance criteria as PCCP to provide users with current
with additional that used in syngo Dynamics information regarding the device’s
data VA41F. re-training process and performance
capabilities
Modification Performance testing will be Labeling will be updated in
Group #2: performed using the same test accordance with the authorized
Additional EVC methods as in syngo Dynamics PCCP to provide users with current
inputs and VA41F and predefined acceptance information regarding the device’s
outputs criteria. capabilities with expanded input and
output data types
Siemens Healthineers Page 11 of 12syngo Dynamics (Version VA41F) Traditional 510(k) Submission
IX. CONCLUSIONS 21CFR § 807.92(b)(3)
Performance tests were conducted to test the functionality of the device syngo Dynamics (Version
VA41F). These tests have been performed to assess the functionality of the subject device. Results of
all testing conducted were found acceptable in support to determine similarities to the predicate
/previously cleared device.
Device labeling contains instructions for use and any necessary cautions and warnings to provide for
safe and effective use of this device. Risk management was implemented throughout the development
process to control potential hazards.
The device does not come in contact with the patient and is only used by trained professionals. The
output of the device is evaluated by clinicians, providing for sufficient review to identify and intervene
in the event of a malfunction.
Siemens Healthineers believes that syngo Dynamics (Version VA41F) is safe and effective as the
identified predicate device and does not introduce new safety and effectiveness concerns.
Substantial Equivalence Conclusion
The comparison of intended use, technological characteristics, performance specifications, device
hazards as well as verification and validation results demonstrate that syngo Dynamics is safe, effective
and performs as well as the predicate device.
In summary, Siemens Healthineers is of the opinion that syngo Dynamics (Version VA41F) does not
introduce any new significant potential safety risks and is substantially equivalent to the predicate
device.
Siemens Healthineers Page 12 of 12