February 6, 2026
GE Medical Systems, LLC
Emily Fang
Regulatory Affairs Leader
3200 N. Grandview Blvd.
Waukesha, Wisconsin 53188
Re: K253780
Trade/Device Name: SIGNA™ Bolt
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.1000
Regulation Name: Magnetic Resonance Diagnostic Device
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: LNH, LNI, MOS
Dated: November 26, 2025
Received: November 26, 2025
Dear Emily Fang:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK253780 - Emily Fang Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K253780 - Emily Fang Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Daniel M. Krainak, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
DHT8C: Division of Radiological
Imaging and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K253780
Device Name
SIGNA™ Bolt
Indications for Use (Describe)
The SIGNA™ Bolt system is a whole body magnetic resonance scanner designed to support high resolution, high signal-
to-noise ratio, and short scan times. It is indicated for use as a diagnostic imaging device to produce axial, sagittal,
coronal, and oblique images, spectroscopic images, parametric maps, and/or spectra, dynamic images of the structures
and/or functions of the entire body, including, but not limited to, head, neck, TMJ, spine, breast, heart, abdomen, pelvis,
joints, prostate, blood vessels, and musculoskeletal regions of the body. Depending on the region of interest being imaged,
contrast agents may be used.
The images produced by the SIGNA™ Bolt system reflect the spatial distribution or molecular environment of nuclei
exhibiting magnetic resonance. These images and/or spectra when interpreted by a trained physician yield information
that may assist in diagnosis.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFSIGNATM Bolt
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
K253780
510(k) Summary
In according with 21 CFR 807.92 the following summary of information is provided:
Date November 26, 2025
Submitter GE Medical Systems, LLC
3200 N. Grandview Blvd.
Waukesha, WI 53188
Primary Contact Emily Fang
Regulatory Affairs Leader
609-285-9878
signa.bolt.premarket@gehealthcare.com
Secondary Contact Sandra Bahling
Senior Regulatory Affairs Leader
262-720-8872
Sandra.Westphal@gehealthcare.com
Glen Sabin
Regulatory Affairs Director
262-894-4968
Glen.Sabin@gehealthcare.com
Device Trade Name SIGNATM Bolt
Common/Usual Name MR System
Classification Name Magnetic Resonance Diagnostic Device
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.1000
Product Code LNH, LNI, MOS
Predicate Device(s) SIGNATM Premier (K193282)
Reference Device(s) SIGNATM Victor (K223439)
Device Description
SIGNATM Bolt is a whole body magnetic resonance scanner designed to support high resolution, high
signal-to-noise ratio, and short scan times, and is designed for improved patient comfort and workflow.
The system features a 3.0T superconducting magnet with a 70 cm bore size and can image in the
sagittal, coronal, axial, oblique, and double oblique planes, using various pulse sequences, imaging
techniques and reconstruction algorithms. SIGNATM Bolt is designed to conform to NEMA DICOM
standards.
The SIGNATM Bolt system will be offered as two commercial configurations with the following features:
Specification SIGNATM Bolt – SuperXG Gradient SIGNATM Bolt – SuperXF Gradient
3.0T superconducting magnet with a wide (70 cm) bore size and
Magnet
active shielding
Maximum
80 mT/m 65 mT/m
Gradient Strength
Maximum Slew
200 T/m/s 200 T/m/s
Rate
Page 1 of 6SIGNATM Bolt
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
Specification SIGNATM Bolt – SuperXG Gradient SIGNATM Bolt – SuperXF Gradient
A liquid cooled In-Scan-Room RF transmit architecture with a
RF Transmit
peak power capability of 36 kW and 3.0T Platform Body Coil
RF Receive Chain 162 Ch available 130 Ch available
Detachable SIGNA One Patient Table with embedded 3.0T AIR PA
Patient Table XL coil and up to four 32-channel high density auto-coil sensing
connection ports
Power Rating 113 kVA 90 kVA
Software platform featuring various productivity enhancement
features, designed to improve workflow and reduce scan time
• AIRx (previously cleared in K183231) – AI-based
Software automated slice prescription tool now extended with new
deep learning models for spine and prostate imaging
• SIGNA One Camera – Real-time AI-enabled image
guidance that assists with automated patient positioning
Gating Options Wired, wireless, and contactless physiological gating options
Comparison of Indications for Use
The indications for use have not been changed compared to the predicate, other than to reflect the
SIGNATM Bolt product name:
The SIGNATM Bolt system is a whole body magnetic resonance scanner designed to support high
resolution, high signal-to-noise ratio, and short scan times. It is indicated for use as a diagnostic
imaging device to produce axial, sagittal, coronal, and oblique images, spectroscopic images,
parametric maps, and/or spectra, dynamic images of the structures and/or functions of the
entire body, including, but not limited to, head, neck, TMJ, spine, breast, heart, abdomen, pelvis,
joints, prostate, blood vessels, and musculoskeletal regions of the body. Depending on the region
of interest being imaged, contrast agents may be used.
The images produced by the SIGNATM Bolt system reflect the spatial distribution or molecular
environment of nuclei exhibiting magnetic resonance. These images and/or spectra when
interpreted by a trained physician yield information that may assist in diagnosis.
Therefore, the intended use is the same as the predicate device in accordance with the FDA guidance
“The 510(k) Program: Evaluating Substantial Equivalence in Premarket Notifications [510(k)]”, issued on
July 28, 2014.
Comparison of Technological Characteristics
Overall, SIGNATM Bolt employs the same fundamental scientific technology and operating principles as
the predicate device and reference device.
There are some differences in characteristics between the proposed device and the predicate/reference
devices, as summarized below:
Page 2 of 6SIGNATM Bolt
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
Predicate Device
Subsystem or Proposed Device
SIGNATM Comments
Component SIGNATM Bolt
Premier
(K193282)
Identical. SIGNATM Bolt uses the same
Magnet 3.0T superconducting magnet with active shielding. type of magnet as used in the
predicate device.
Substantially Equivalent. The ZRMW
gradient coil decreases heat
HRMW gradient coil with ZRMW gradient coil with
generation and lowers the
Gradient Coil water-cooled, active- water-cooled, active-
temperature of the inner bore.
shielded design. shielded design.
These differences do not impact
safety or efficacy.
Substantially Equivalent. The
Platform Body Coil used in SIGNATM
Bolt is the same as the predicate
device with design modifications to
A liquid cooled In-Scan- reduce heat dissipation. SIGNATM
A liquid cooled RF
Room RF transmit Bolt also uses a newly designed In-
transmit architecture
RF Transmit architecture with a peak Scan-Room (ISR) Transmit Driver
with a peak power
Subsystem power capability of 36 which moves all the transmit driver
capability of 30 kW and
kW and 3.0T Platform components except the ISR Support
3.0T RF body coil.
Body Coil. Unit inside the scan room as
compared to the equipment room
for the predicate device. These
modifications do not raise any new
concern of safety or effectiveness.
Identical. SIGNATM Bolt uses the same
RF Receive
3.0T Digitize-Per-Pin (DPP) receive chain architecture. type of RF receive subsystem as used
Subsystem
in the predicate device.
Substantially Equivalent. SIGNATM
Bolt offers the same wired and
wireless gating capabilities as the
Respiratory peripheral
predicate device. SIGNATM Bolt
Respiratory peripheral and cardiac gating with
introduces contactless gating,
and cardiac gating with wired and wireless
Gating Options enabling peripheral cardiac and
wired and wireless connection. Contactless
respiratory triggered MR exams
connection. peripheral cardiac and
without the need for physical
respiratory gating.
attachment of monitoring
accessories. This modification does
not raise any new
concern of safety or effectiveness.
Substantially Equivalent. SIGNATM
Bolt software is based off that of
reference device SIGNATM Victor,
bringing additional parity with
Comprehensive suite of software features, pulse
Software features available on the predicate
sequences, and image processing applications to
Features device software platform along with
support MR imaging of all anatomies.
modifications and enhancements to
existing features. The modifications
do not raise any new concern of
safety or effectiveness.
Page 3 of 6SIGNATM Bolt
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
Summary of Nonclinical Testing
The SIGNATM Bolt system was developed and tested under the same design controls, risk management
processes, and GE HealthCare quality system as the predicate device SIGNATM Premier (K193282) to
demonstrate substantial equivalence in safety and performance.
The following quality assurance measures were implemented during the development of SIGNATM Bolt,
consistent with those applied to the predicate device:
• Risk Analysis
• Requirements Reviews
• Design Reviews
• Unit-Level Testing (Verification)
• System Integration Testing (Verification)
• Performance Testing (Verification)
• Simulated Use Testing (Validation)
Testing was conducted in accordance with the following voluntary consensus standards:
• ANSI/AAMI/IEC 60601-1
• IEC 60601-1-2
• IEC 60601-2-33
• IEC TS 60601-4-2
• IEC 62304
• ISO 10993-1
• IEC 62464-1
• NEMA MS 1
• NEMA MS 3
• NEMA MS 4
• NEMA MS 6
• NEMA MS 8
• NEMA MS 9
• NEMA MS 14
• NEMA PS 3.1 - 3.20
Software verification and validation testing was conducted and documented in accordance with the FDA
guidance “Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software Functions” issued on June 14, 2023.
Cybersecurity testing was completed and documented in accordance with the FDA guidance
“Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality System Considerations and Content of Premarket
Submissions” issued on June 27, 2025.
Contactless Gating
Verification and validation testing confirmed that the contactless gating feature meets its performance
specifications by accurately detecting and displaying respiratory and peripheral cardiac waveforms
without the need for physical accessories. Contactless gating also supports use of these waveforms for
triggering MR acquisitions across multiple anatomical regions.
Page 4 of 6SIGNATM Bolt
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
SIGNA One Camera
The SIGNA One Camera is intended solely for use during the exam setup process prior to the initiation of
the localizer scan and does not perform diagnostic imaging or evaluation. Accordingly, performance
testing focused on assessing the deep learning model landmark inference accuracy using diverse
datasets collected from 80 volunteers in the US and China. To ensure unbiased evaluation, the test
dataset was entirely separate from the training and validation datasets. Accuracy was evaluated by
comparing the MR system coordinates of the camera-predicted anatomical landmarks against ground
truth annotations. The SIGNA One Camera met the predefined acceptance criterion of 90%, achieving
successful detection in up to 99% of cases across all evaluated anatomical regions.
A time on task study was also conducted with 11 MR Scan Operators as participants to assess the
efficiency and reliability of the SIGNA One Camera landmarking workflow compared to conventional
laser landmarking. Results demonstrated that the camera workflow consistently enabled faster setup
times for landmarking. Additionally, the camera achieved a 97% success rate in landmark acceptance
with the addition of anatomical obstructions, exceeding the predefined acceptance criterion of 95%.
AIRx
The AIRx feature is intended to automatically determine scan planes aligned to specific anatomical
structures before the initiation of a scan. It was initially cleared for brain imaging under K183231 and
subsequently extended to include knee imaging. In this submission, AIRx functionality has been further
expanded to support imaging of the spine and prostate.
Performance testing was conducted on the AIRx Spine deep learning models using a dedicated dataset
derived from 376 subjects. Data were sourced from multiple clinical sites and internal GE HealthCare
sites to ensure diversity in anatomy, field strength, imaging protocols, pathology, and presence of
implants. The test dataset was held separate from training and validation data. All models met their
predefined acceptance criteria.
Comparative studies demonstrated that AIRx Spine reduced scan prescription times compared to manual
workflows and minimized inter-operator variability, as confirmed by Structural Similarity Index (SSIM)
analysis and visual comparisons. AIRx Spine successfully adapted prescriptions to patient-specific spinal
curvatures, enabling accurate multi-slice, multi-angle prescriptions for cervical, thoracic, and lumbar
stations. Additionally, AIRx Spine successfully automated the setup of Pars Interarticularis and Cervical
Foramina scans, reducing the variability in manual prescription due to the complex angle and small size
of these structures. All tests met predefined acceptance criteria with no deviations or failures,
supporting the performance claims for AIRx Spine.
Performance testing was conducted on the six deep learning models that comprise the AIRx Prostate
feature, evaluating automated prostate scan plane prescription using SSFSE localizer images across
diverse datasets from clinical sites in the US and Europe. A total of 785 exams were used for the test
dataset, which was kept separate from the training and validation data. All models met predefined
acceptance criteria, confirming robustness to variations in anatomy, pathology, and presence of
implants.
GE HealthCare intends to obtain clearance for AIRx Spine and AIRx Prostate on GE HealthCare’s 3.0T and
1.5T MR Systems.
Page 5 of 6SIGNATM Bolt
Traditional 510(k) Premarket Notification
Summary of Clinical Testing
SIGNATM Bolt did not require clinical studies to support substantial equivalence. Sample clinical images
have been included in this submission in accordance with the FDA Guidance “Submission of Premarket
Notifications for Magnetic Resonance Diagnostic Devices” issued on October 10, 2023.
A U.S. Board Certified radiologist reviewed these images and attested that images produced by SIGNATM
Bolt are of sufficient quality for diagnostic use.
Conclusions Drawn from Performance Testing
In conclusion, GE HealthCare considers the SIGNATM Bolt to be as safe, as effective, with performance
that is substantially equivalent to the predicate device.
Page 6 of 6