March 26, 2026
Airs Medical, Inc.
Markus Cho
RA Manager
13-14f, Keungil Tower, 223, Teheran-Ro, Gangnam-Gu
Seoul, Seoul 06142
Republic Of Korea
Re: K253775
Trade/Device Name: SwiftMR
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: February 27, 2026
Received: February 27, 2026
Dear Markus Cho:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK253775 - Markus Cho Page 2
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact theK253775 - Markus Cho Page 3
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Daniel M. Krainak, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
DHT8C: Division of Radiological
Imaging and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K253775
Device Name
SwiftMR
Indications for Use (Describe)
SwiftMR is a stand-alone medical imaging software solution intended for the acceptance, enhancement, processing,
review, analysis, communication, and transfer of all body parts MR images in DICOM format. The software may be used
for the enhancement of medical images, such as noise reduction and increased image sharpness for MR images.
The device is designed for use by healthcare professionals and is intended to assist clinicians, who remain responsible for
making all final patient management decisions. The device is not intended for use on mobile devices.
The available field strengths are as follows: 0.25T, 0.31T, 0.4T, 0.55T, 0.6T, 1.5T, and 3.0T.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(k) Summary K253775
This 510(k) Summary of safety and effectiveness information is being submitted in accordance with
the requirements of 21 CFR 807.92.
I.SUBMITTER
Mr. Markus Cho
RA Specialist
AIRS Medical Inc.
13-14F, Keungil Tower, 223, Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu,
Seoul, 06142, Republic of Korea
Phone: +82-10-3974-4600
FAX: +82-2-6280-3185
Email: cho.markus@airsmed.com
Date Prepared: March 23, 2026
II.DEVICE
Name of Device: SwiftMR
Common or Usual Name: Medical Image Management and Processing System
Classification Name: system, image processing, radiological (21 CFR 892.2050)
Regulatory Class: II
Product Code: QIH
III.PREDICATE DEVICE
Predicate Device: SwiftMR – K230854 by AIRS Medical, Inc., Class II, CFR
892.2050, classification with product code LLZ.
IV.DEVICE DESCRIPTION
SwiftMR is software used as a Medical Device (SaMD) consisting of a software
algorithm that enhances images taken by MRI scanners. The device only processes
DICOM images for the end user and is intended to be used by radiology technologists
in an imaging center, clinic, or hospital.
The device’s inputs are MRI images in DICOM format. The deep learning algorithm
produces enhanced images as outputs with reduced noise and increased sharpness
in DICOM format. The deep learning algorithm performs noise reduction with the
ability of adjusting the denoising level from level 0 to level 8, and sharpening filter
performs the sharpening function with the ability of adjusting the sharpness level from
level 0 to level 5.
SwiftMR provides an automatic image quality enhancement function for MR images
acquired in various environments. SwiftMR can only be used for professional
purposes and is not intended for use on mobile devices.
SwiftMR’s automation procedure is as follows:
- Receive MR images that are in DICOM format from PACS or from MRI
- Image quality enhancement using Deep Learning model and sharpening filter
- Transfer enhanced MR image as DICOM format to PACS or to MRI
Page 1510(k) Summary
SwiftMR supports input images reconstructed using both conventional vendor
reconstruction algorithms and vendor-implemented deep learning (DL)
reconstruction pipelines. These vendor DL-reconstructed images are treated as
standard DICOM images, and compatibility verification has confirmed that upstream
DL processing does not negatively affect SwiftMR performance, artifacts, or
anatomical fidelity.
Image Enhance deep leaning model can be applied to MR images with field strengths
of 0.25T, 0.31T, 0.4T, 0.55T, 0.6T, 1.5T, and 3.0T. SwiftMR is compatible with both
conventional vendor reconstruction methods and vendor-implemented deep learning
reconstruction pipelines.
At the same time, SwiftMR allows logged-in users to use its functions and view the
processing status. When logged in as the System Admin, the function is available to
control automation procedure and system change settings. On the User side, the
User can retrieve the results of image processing in the form of a worklist by login to
the user account.
The software provides three main functions, which are image processing, quality
check and progress monitoring. As part of the image processing functionality, the
software performs the following non-deep-learning processing of MR images:
- Diffusion-related processing: ADC, exponential ADC, calculated b-value,
fractional anisotropy (FA), FA color, tractography
- Perfusion-related processing: cerebral blood flow, cerebral blood volume, mean
transit time, time to peak
- Susceptibility-weighting imaging related processing: filtered phase, phase mask
weighting
- 3D-related processing: Maximum Intensity Projection (MIP), Minimum Intensity
Projection (minIP), Multi-Planar Reconstruction (MPR)
The software is intended to run automatically in the background so that it does not
interrupt the workflow of users. When the user executes MR scans as he/she usually
does, the newly acquired images are automatically uploaded to the server and
registered in the database (DB) for image processing. Once image processing is
complete, the images are sent to PACS or to MR device.
If the user wishes to monitor this automated workflow to check on the status of image
processing, he/she can check the main page of the client application or toast
messages will appear on the bottom right corner upon completion of each processing.
After using the software, they should log out for security reasons.
A settings menu is provided in the form of a user interface to enable the system admin
to modify software settings as required by the institution or respective user.
V. INDICATIONS FOR USE
SwiftMR is a stand-alone medical imaging software solution intended for the
acceptance, enhancement, processing, review, analysis, communication, and
transfer of all body parts MR images in DICOM format. The software may be used
Page 2510(k) Summary
for the enhancement of medical images, such as noise reduction and increased
image sharpness for MR images.
The device is designed for use by healthcare professionals and is intended to
assist clinicians, who remain responsible for making all final patient management
decisions. The device is not intended for use on mobile devices.
The available field strengths are as follows: 0.25T, 0.31T, 0.4T, 0.55T, 0.6T, 1.5T,
and 3.0T.
VI. COMPARISON OF TECHNOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS WITH THE PREDICATE
DEVICES
The subject device and the predicate devices are substantially equivalent in the
areas of general function, application, and intended use.
Any differences between the predicate and the subject device have no negative
impact on the device safety or efficacy and does not raise any new potential or
increased safety risks and is equivalent in performance to existing legally marketed
devices.
Predicate Device #1
Subject Device
Item (SwiftMR (K230854)) Differences
(SwiftMR)
Regulation 21 CFR 892.2050 / Class 21 CFR 892.2050 / Equivalent
number / II Class II
Classification
Product code QIH LLZ Equivalent under
same regulation
number
Indication for SwiftMR is a stand-alone SwiftMR is a stand- Equivalent
use medical imaging software alone software solution The subject device is
solution intended for the intended to be used for substantially
acceptance, acceptance, equivalent to the
enhancement, processing, enhancement and primary predicate,
review, analysis, transfer of all body parts SwiftMR (K230854),
communication, and MR images in DICOM as they share the
transfer of all body parts format. It can be used same intended use
MR images in DICOM for noise reduction and and core technological
format. The software may increasing image principles for MR
be used for the sharpness for MR image processing.
enhancement of medical images. SwiftMR is not
images, such as noise intended for use on
reduction and increased mobile devices.
image sharpness for MR
images.
The device is designed for
use by healthcare
professionals and is
intended to assist
Page 3510(k) Summary
clinicians, who remain
responsible for making all
final patient management
decisions. The device is
not intended for use on
mobile devices.
The available filed
strengths are as follows:
0.25T, 0.31T, 0.4T, 0.55T,
0.6T, 1.5T, and 3.0T.
Input data MR images in DICOM MR images in DICOM Equivalent (MR input
format format consistent with both
predicates)
Output Enhanced / processed Enhanced MR images in Equivalent
MR images in DICOM DICOM
Intended Healthcare professionals; Same Equivalent
users final clinical responsibility
remains with clinician
Intended Healthcare environment Healthcare environment Equivalent
environment
Enhancement Noise reduction and Same (noise reduction, Equivalent to
increased sharpness sharpening) Predicate device #1
(K230854)
VII. PERFORMANCE DATA
SwiftMR, has been assessed and tested and has passed all predetermined testing
criteria. The Validation Test Plan was designed to evaluate output functions.
Validation testing indicated that as required by the risk analysis, designated
individuals performed all verification and validation activities and that the results
demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met.
The following tests were conducted for SwiftMR:
1) Verification testing: Unit test, system test conducted. These tests passed.
2) Validation testing: Performance test was conducted using retrospective clinical
images for both noise reduction and sharpness increase functions.
A. For the noise reduction performance, acceptance criteria were defined
that the average signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the SwiftMR-processed
image series is increased by 40% or more for at least 90% of the dataset
for level 1 with an incremental 1% increase per each level. This test
passed.
B. For the sharpness increase performance, acceptance criteria were
defined that the FWHM of a selected region of interest (ROI) is decreased
by 0.13% (deep learning model), 0.43% (filter level 1), 1.7% (filter level 2),
2.3% (filter level 3), 3.6% (filter level 4), 4.5% (filter level 5) or more for at
least 90% of the dataset. This test passed.
The validation dataset consists of data of the following conditions:
1. Manufacturer: SIEMENS, GE, PHILIPS, CANON, ESAOTE, FONAR,
FUJIFILM
2. Field Strength: 0.25T / 0.31T / 0.4T / 0.55T / 0.6T / 1.5T / 3.0T
Page 4510(k) Summary
3. Anatomical region: Body (breast, abdomen, and pelvis), Cardiac, Neuro
(head, neck, and spine), Musculoskeletal (shoulder, wrist, hip, knee, and ankle)
4. Protocol: T1, T2, T2*, FLAIR, PD, DWI, MRA
5. Demographics
- age: Adults (22~93 yrs, 91.1%), Pediatrics (0~21 yrs, 8.9%)
- gender: Male (48.4%), Female (41.2%), Other (10.4%)
6. Time reduction range for reduced scan time images: up to 50%
7. Image reconstruction: Conventional (81.2%), Deep Learning Reconstructed
(18.8%)
To show that the performance of the device is not hindered by site variability, in
the validation dataset, we included data from sources not included in the training
dataset.
Therefore, it was demonstrated that SwiftMR performance was shown to be
substantially equivalent to the predicate device.
VIX. CONCLUSION
The information presented in the 510(k) for SwiftMR contains adequate information,
data, and nonclinical test results to demonstrate substantial equivalence to the
predicate device. SwiftMR was shown to be substantially equivalent to the
predicate device in the areas of technical characteristics, general function,
application, and does not raise different questions of safety and effectiveness.
Page 5