March 26, 2026
Medtronic Navigation, Inc.
Victoria Baldock
Senior Regulatory Affairs Specialist
200 Medtronic Dr.
Lafayette, Colorado 80026
Re: K253379
Trade/Device Name: Stealth AXiS Cranial clinical application
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 882.4560
Regulation Name: Stereotaxic Instrument
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: HAW
Dated: February 11, 2026
Received: March 23, 2026
Dear Victoria Baldock:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK253379 - Victoria Baldock Page 2
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).K253379 - Victoria Baldock Page 3
Sincerely,
JULIA E. SLOCOMB -Digitally signed by JULIA E.
SLOCOMB -S
S
Date: 2026.03.26 13:49:01 -04'00'
for Jaime Raben, Ph.D.
Director
DHT5A: Division of Neurosurgical,
Neurointerventional, and
Neurodiagnostic Devices
OHT5: Office of Neurological and
Physical Medicine Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K253379
Device Name
Stealth AXiS Cranial clinical application
Indications for Use (Describe)
The Stealth AXiS Surgical System, with the Stealth AXiS Cranial clinical application, is intended for precise positioning
of surgical instruments and as an aid for locating anatomical structures in open, minimally invasive, and percutaneous
neurosurgical procedures. Their use is indicated for any medical condition in which the use of stereotactic surgery may be
appropriate, and where reference to a rigid anatomical structure, such as the skull, can be identified relative to images of
the anatomy.
This can include, but is not limited to, the following cranial procedures (including stereotactic frame-based and
stereotactic frame alternatives-based procedures):
• Tumor resections
• General ventricular catheter placement
• Pediatric ventricular catheter placement
• Depth electrode, lead, and probe placement
• Cranial biopsies
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFK253379
510(k) Summary
November 14, 2025
I. Company: Medtronic Navigation, Inc.
200 Medtronic Drive
Lafayette, CO 80026
Telephone Number: (720) 890-3160
Contact: Victoria Baldock
Senior Regulatory Affairs Specialist
Telephone Number: (423) 863-5907
Email: tori.a.baldock@medtronic.com
Carey Brenner (Alternate)
Principal Regulatory Affairs Specialist
Telephone Number: (720) 890-2185
Email: carey.j.brenner@medtronic.com
II. Proprietary Trade Name: Stealth AXiS™ Cranial Clinical Application
III. Common Name: Neurological Stereotaxic Instrument
IV. Classification Name: Stereotaxic Instrument (21 CFR 882.4560)
V. Classification: Class II
VI. Product Code: HAW (Neurological Stereotaxic Instrument)
VII. Predicate Devices:
The legally marketed predicate and reference devices are identified below:
Device Type Device
Subject Device Stealth AXiS Cranial clinical application v1.0
Predicate Device StealthStation S8 Cranial Software v2.0
(K212397, cleared December 22, 2021)
Reference Device SureTune4 Software
(DEN210003, approved August 23, 2021)
VIII. Device Description:
The Stealth AXiS™ Cranial clinical application works in conjunction with the Stealth AXiS™
Surgical System. The Stealth AXiS™ Cranial clinical application helps guide surgeons during
cranial procedures such as biopsies, tumor resections, shunt placements and depth
1K253379
electrode and probe placement. The system tracks the position of instruments in relation to
surgical anatomy and identifies this position on diagnostic or intraoperative images of the
patient.
Patient images are transferred to the system, and the Stealth AXiS™ Cranial clinical
application displays the image of the patient anatomy from a variety of perspectives (axial,
sagittal, coronal, oblique) and 3-dimensional (3D) renderings of anatomical structures.
During navigation, the Stealth AXiS™ Surgical System identifies the tip location and trajectory
of the tracked instrument on images and models the user has selected to display on the
monitor. The surgeon may also create and store one or more surgical plan trajectories before
surgery and simulate progression along these trajectories. During surgery, the Stealth AXiS™
Cranial clinical application can display how the actual instrument tip position and trajectory
relate to the pre-surgical plan, helping to guide the surgeon along the planned trajectory.
IX. Indications for Use:
The Stealth AXiS™ Surgical System, with the Stealth AXiS™ Cranial clinical application, is
intended for precise positioning of surgical instruments and as an aid for locating anatomical
structures in open, minimally invasive, and percutaneous neurosurgical procedures. Their
use is indicated for any medical condition in which the use of stereotactic surgery may be
appropriate, and where reference to a rigid anatomical structure, such as the skull, can be
identified relative to images of the anatomy.
This can include, but is not limited to, the following cranial procedures (including
stereotactic frame-based and stereotactic frame alternatives-based procedures):
• Tumor resections
• General ventricular catheter placement
• Pediatric ventricular catheter placement
• Depth electrode, lead, and probe placement
• Cranial biopsies
X. Comparison of Technological Characteristics:
A comparison of the technological characteristics of the subject, predicate, and reference
devices is provided in the table below.
2K253379
Table 1. Technological Comparison of Stealth AXiS Cranial Clinical Application (subject), StealthStation S8
Cranial Software (predicate), and SureTune4 Software (reference)
Technological Stealth AXiS™ Cranial Clinical StealthStation S8 Cranial SureTune4 Software
Characteristic Application v1.0 Software v2.0 (K212397) (DEN210003)
Predicate Device Reference Device
Subject Device
Intended Use / The Stealth AXiS™ Surgical The StealthStation™ System, with
Indications for System, with the Stealth AXiS™ StealthStation™ Cranial Software, is
Use Cranial clinical application, is intended as an aid for locating
intended for precise positioning anatomical structures in either
of surgical instruments and as open or percutaneous
an aid for locating anatomical neurosurgical procedures. Their
structures in open, minimally use is indicated for any medical
invasive, and percutaneous condition in which the use of
neurosurgical procedures. Their stereotactic surgery may be
use is indicated for any medical appropriate, and where reference
condition in which the use of to a rigid anatomical structure,
stereotactic surgery may be such as the skull, can be identified
appropriate, and where relative to images of the anatomy.
reference to a rigid anatomical This can include, but is not limited
structure, such as the skull, to, the following cranial procedures
can be identified relative to (including stereotactic frame-
images of the anatomy. based and stereotactic frame
This can include, but is not alternatives-based procedures):
limited to, the following cranial • Tumor resections
procedures (including • General ventricular catheter
stereotactic frame-based and placement
stereotactic frame alternatives- • Pediatric ventricular catheter
placement
based procedures):
• Depth electrode, lead, and probe
• Tumor resections
placement
• General ventricular catheter
• Cranial biopsies
placement
• Pediatric ventricular catheter
placement
• Depth electrode, lead, and
probe placement
• Cranial biopsies
System Under representative worst- Under representative worst-case
Accuracy case configuration, the Stealth configuration, the StealthStation
Requirement AXiS™ Surgical System with S8 System with StealthStation
Stealth AXiS™ cranial Cranial Software, has
application, has demonstrated demonstrated performance in 3D
performance in 3D positional positional accuracy with a mean
accuracy with a mean error ≤ error ≤ 2.0 mm and in trajectory
2.0 mm and in trajectory angle angle accuracy with a mean error ≤
accuracy with a mean error ≤ 2.0 degrees
2.0 degrees
Imaging • X-Ray based • X-Ray based
Modalities • MR based • MR based
• Nuclear Medicine based • Nuclear Medicine based
3K253379
Technological Stealth AXiS™ Cranial Clinical StealthStation S8 Cranial SureTune4 Software
Characteristic Application v1.0 Software v2.0 (K212397) (DEN210003)
Predicate Device Reference Device
Subject Device
View (Display) • Ultrasound Video In • Ultrasound Video In
Features • Ultrasound Overlay • Ultrasound Overlay
• 3D • 3D
• 2D Anatomic Orthogonal • 2D Anatomic Orthogonal
• Trajectory 1 and 2 • Trajectory 1 and 2
• Target Guidance • Target Guidance
• Trajectory Guidance • Trajectory Guidance
• Probes Eye • Probes Eye
• Look Ahead • Look Ahead
• Microscope Injection • Microscope Injection
• Video Input • Video Input
Exam-to-Exam • Pre-Merge (previously • Identity Merge Registration
Registration Identity Merge ) Registration • Manual Merge Registration
Features • Manual Merge Registration • Automatic Merge Registration
• Automatic Merge
Registration
• Trace registration, • PointMerge® registration
Patient
Registration • Touch registration (referred to as Landmark
Features • O-arm™ registration registrations)
• Mechanical based • Trace registration
registrations (Stereotactic • Touch registration
Localizer Registration) • StealthAiR® registration
• O-arm™ registration
• Mechanical based registrations
(Stereotactic Localizer
Registration and StarFix™ Bone
Anchor Registration)
Planning • Model Building (2D and 3D) • Model Building (2D and 3D) • Brain Atlas: 3D atlas
Features • Tractography, including fiber • Tractography, including fiber (Paris)
tracts with Enhanced CSD tracts with Standard DTI and
techniques with Enhanced CSD techniques
automatically generated • Plan Entry and Target Selection
tracts (autotracts) • Advanced Visualization
• Plan Entry and Target • Create Patient Based
Selection Anatomical Coordinate Space
• Advanced Visualization • Stereotactic Frame Settings
• Create Patient Based • Brain Atlas: 2D atlas
Anatomical Coordinate (Schaltenbrand- Wahren Atlas
Space with Talairach Grid)
• Stereotactic Frame Settings • STarFix™ Designer Annotations
• Brain Atlas: 3D atlas (Paris
and AHEAD)
4K253379
Technological Stealth AXiS™ Cranial Clinical StealthStation S8 Cranial SureTune4 Software
Characteristic Application v1.0 Software v2.0 (K212397) (DEN210003)
Predicate Device Reference Device
Subject Device
Interfaces with Medtronic O-arm™ O2 Imaging Medtronic O-arm™ O2 Imaging
Medical System System
Devices Medtronic Stealth Autoguide™ Medtronic Stealth Autoguide™
System System
Microscope Navigation: Zeiss, Microscope Navigation: Zeiss,
Leica Leica
Ultrasound Navigation: GEHC Ultrasound Navigation: Aloka,
bkActiv and Craniotomy Sonosite
Transducer Stereotactic Frame Systems:
Stereotactic Frame Systems: Fischer ZD, Fischer RM, Integra
Inomed ZD (previously Fischer CRW Stereotactic System, Elekta
ZD), Integra CRW Stereotactic Leksell Nexframe™ Stereotactic
System, Elekta Leksell, System, and STarFix™Platform
Nexframe™ Stereotactic System System
Compatible Medtronic instruments tracked Medtronic instruments tracked via
Medtronic via optical markers or LEDs optical markers or LEDs located on
Optical located on instrument and instrument and patient trackers via
Instrumentation patient trackers via the optical the optical localizing system.
localizing system.
Compatible Medtronic instruments tracked Medtronic instruments tracked via
Medtronic EM via Electromagnetic Electromagnetic localization
Instrumentation localization technology located technology located within the
within the instrument and instrument and patient trackers
patient trackers
Scanner Network Connectivity Network Connectivity
Interface CD, DVD, USB CD, DVD, USB
Technology (to
DICOM Import DICOM Import
imaging
devices) DICOM Export DICOM Export
XI. Discussion of Nonclinical Testing:
The testing conducted on the Stealth AXiS™ Cranial clinical application included:
• Under representative worst-case configuration, the Stealth AXiS™ Surgical System
with Stealth AXiS™ Cranial clinical application has demonstrated performance in 3D
positional accuracy with a mean error ≤ 2.0 mm and in trajectory angle accuracy with
a mean error of ≤ 2.0 degrees.
• Software verification and validation testing verified the product requirements are met,
and the device performs as intended.
5K253379
• Summative usability validation was performed by representative users. The summative
evaluations demonstrated the Stealth AXiS™ Cranial clinical application to be
substantially equivalent for the intended user, uses, and use environments.
XII. Discussion of Clinical Testing:
No clinical testing was performed.
XIII. AI-enabled Device Summary:
Automatic Tractography (Autotracts)
The Automatic Tracts (Autotracts) feature in the Stealth AXiS Cranial clinical application uses
AI and machine learning to automatically generate patient-specific white matter tracts from
diffusion MRI images, streamlining pre-surgical planning. Users retain control by adjusting
tract appearance via probability thresholds, manually cropping tracts as needed, and
ultimately verifying tracts before proceeding.
Autotracts utilizes a locked U-Net-based convolutional neural network for brain
segmentation, constrained spherical deconvolution for tractography, and a random forest
classifier to filter tracts. Training and validation used hundreds of images from internal
studies and public datasets, spanning normal and pathological cases, including expert-
reviewed gold standard annotations.
Model training incorporated data augmentation, with validation performed on withheld
datasets. Performance was assessed leveraging expert review to ensure reliability. The AI
model is locked and does not update after deployment.
XIV. Conclusion:
The Stealth AXiS™ Cranial clinical application has been shown through comparison and testing to
be substantially equivalent to the identified predicate.
6