April 29, 2026
Quantib BV
℅ Kim Ky
Director, Regulatory Affairs
Deephealth, Inc.
212 Elm St.
Somerville, Massachusetts 02144
Re: K253682
Trade/Device Name: DeepHealth ProstateAI
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2090
Regulation Name: Radiological Computer-Assisted Detection And Diagnosis Software
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QDQ
Dated: March 27, 2026
Received: March 27, 2026
Dear Kim Ky:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK253682 - Kim Ky Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K253682 - Kim Ky Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Daniel M. Krainak, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Magnetic Resonance and Nuclear Medicine Team
DHT8C: Division of Radiological
Imaging and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K253682
Device Name
DeepHealth ProstateAI
Indications for Use (Describe)
DeepHealth ProstateAI is a Computer-Aided Detection and Diagnosis (CADe/x) software device developed to aid trained
physicians in the detection and characterization of prostate cancer lesions using MR imaging data in patients aged 40
years and older. DeepHealth ProstateAI analyzes T2W, ADC and DWI MR images. Combined with the MR images the
software requires a binary mask containing the prostate gland segmentation. Output consists of ROI candidates including
segmentations, and per ROI a classification indicating the likelihood of prostate cancer. The device is intended to assist in
the detection of prostate cancer across the full range of grade groups (ISUP Grade Group ≥ 1), including clinically
significant prostate cancer (ISUP Grade Group ≥ 2). Device outputs shall be input for a visualization and adaptation tool.
DeepHealth ProstateAI is intended to be used as a concurrent reading aid for physicians assessing prostate MRI exams.
Analysis by DeepHealth ProstateAI is not intended as a replacement for interpreting prostate abnormalities using MR
image data consistent with clinical recommendations (e.g., including DCE information when available); nor should patient
management decisions be made solely based on the results of DeepHealth ProstateAI.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(k) Summary K253682
Quantib BV
DeepHealth ProstateAI
This summary of 510(k) safety and effectiveness information is being submitted in accordance
with the requirements of 21 CFR 807.92.
1. 510(k) Submitter
Quantib BV
Westblaak 130
3012 KM Rotterdam
Tel: +31 10 841 1749
Primary Contact:
Kim Ky
Director, Regulatory Affairs
Email: regulatory@deephealth.com
Phone: 510-828-4757
Secondary Contact:
B.Nathan Hunt
Head of Quality, Regulatory, and Compliance
Email: regulatory@deephealth.com
Phone: 443-506-8911
Date prepared:
March 26, 2026
2. Device
Trade Name of Device:
DeepHealth ProstateAI
Common or Usual Name:
Radiological computer assisted detection/diagnosis software
Classification Names:
Radiological computer-assisted detection and diagnosis software (21 CFR 892.2090)
Regulation Class:
II
Product Code:
QDQ3. Predicate Device
Trade Name of Device:
ProstatID (K212783)
Common or Usual Name:
ProstatIDTM MRI Diagnostic Aid for Prostate Cancer
Classification Names:
Radiological Computer Assisted Detection/Diagnosis Software for Lesions Suspicious for Cancer
(21 CFR 892.2090)
Regulation Class:
II
Product Code:
QDQ
4. Device Description
DeepHealth ProstateAI is a CADe/x software that uses artificial intelligence to detect and
characterize prostate cancer on bi-parametric MRI (T2-weighted, ADC, DWI). The device employs
convolutional neural networks to automatically detect candidate ROIs within and extending from
the prostate, generate segmentations of identified regions, and classify each ROI as low,
moderate, or high suspicion category. It requires prostate segmentation from a cleared device as
input and outputs DICOM/NIfTI files with ROI segmentations and classifications for display in
PACS viewers as color-coded overlays.
The suspicion classification system employs validated thresholds to categorize lesions into three
distinct levels, with the following design targets and observed validation performance:
Suspicion Display Design target:
Observed performance (validation cohort)
category color likelihood of PCa
Low Green ≤20% 10% of low-suspicion confirmed as PCa
Moderate Yellow >20% to <80% 46% of moderate-suspicion confirmed as PCa
High Red ≥80% 86% of high-suspicion confirmed as PCa
Design targets reflect the intended performance of the suspicion classification system at case level.
5. Indications for Use
DeepHealth ProstateAI is a Computer-Aided Detection and Diagnosis (CADe/x) software device
developed to aid trained physicians in the detection and characterization of prostate cancer
lesions using MR imaging data in patients aged 40 years and older. DeepHealth ProstateAI
analyzes T2W, ADC and DWI MR images. Combined with the MR images the software requires abinary mask containing the prostate gland segmentation. Output consists of ROI candidates
including segmentations, and per ROI a classification indicating the likelihood of prostate cancer.
The device is intended to assist in the detection of prostate cancer across the full range of grade
groups (ISUP Grade Group ≥ 1), including clinically significant prostate cancer (ISUP Grade Group
≥ 2). Device outputs shall be input for a visualization and adaptation tool. DeepHealth ProstateAI
is intended to be used as a concurrent reading aid for physicians assessing prostate MRI exams.
Analysis by DeepHealth ProstateAI is not intended as a replacement for interpreting prostate
abnormalities using MR image data consistent with clinical recommendations (e.g., including
DCE information when available); nor should patient management decisions be made solely
based on the results of DeepHealth ProstateAI.
User Profile
Intended users of DeepHealth ProstateAI are healthcare professionals qualified to read and
interpret prostate MRI exams consistent with recommendations.
Use Environment
The DeepHealth ProstateAI device is intended for use in professional medical imaging
environments, including hospital radiology departments, and outpatient imaging center. The
device is not intended for use in emergency departments, intensive care units, general practitioner
offices, mobile imaging units, or patient homes.
The use environment must include:
• A compatible visualization platform (PACS or advanced workstation) capable of
displaying DICOM Segmentation and SC objects
• An orchestration system for workflow management and data routing
• Network infrastructure supporting secure DICOM communication
• Diagnostic-quality displays meeting medical imaging standards
The system hosting the visualization platform must meet the technical requirements specified by
the platform manufacturer. Healthcare facilities must ensure users have appropriate training in
prostate MRI interpretation and access to complete imaging datasets for proper clinical decision-
making.
Target Population
The device is intended to be used in the population of adult males with a prostate gland
undergoing MRI exams. The target population includes males aged 40 years and older with
clinical indicators suggestive of possible prostate cancer, such as elevated serum PSA, abnormal
digital rectal examination, family history of prostate cancer, or known genetic markers, who are
referred for prostate MRI examination.
6. Predicate Device Comparison
The subject device, DeepHealth ProstateAI, is a computer-aided detection and diagnosis
(CADe/x) software intended to aid trained physicians in the detection and characterization of
prostate cancer lesions using MR imaging data. It analyzes T2-weighted (T2W), diffusion-weighted (DWI), and apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) sequences in combination with a binary
prostate-gland segmentation to identify regions of interest (ROIs) and assign categorical scores
(low, moderate, high) indicating the likelihood of prostate cancer. DeepHealth ProstateAI is
designed for concurrent reading and is not intended as a replacement for physician interpretation
or for stand-alone diagnostic use.
The predicate device, ProstatID (K212783), is a radiological computer-assisted detection (CADe)
and diagnostic (CADx) software that assists radiologists in the detection, assessment, and
characterization of prostate abnormalities, including cancer lesions, using MR image data.
ProstatID analyzes T2W, DWI, and ADC MRI sequences to identify suspicious regions and assess
their likelihood of malignancy, providing prostate and lesion volumes, likelihood scores, and a PI-
RADS-suggestive exam score.
Both devices share a common intended use: to provide AI-based assistance to qualified
physicians interpreting prostate MRI exams for the detection and characterization of prostate
cancer lesions. Both are classified under 21 CFR 892.2090 (Product Code QDQ) as radiological
CADe/x software. The observed differences in output structure (categorical levels vs. continuous
PI-RADS-suggestive scores) do not alter the intended clinical purpose or raise new questions of
safety or effectiveness, as demonstrated by non-clinical and clinical performance testing.
Technological Characteristics
The subject device, DeepHealth ProstateAI, and the predicate device, ProstatID (K212783), are
both software-only radiological computer-aided detection and diagnosis (CADe/x) systems
intended to assist qualified physicians in analyzing prostate MRI images and identifying
suspicious regions. Both process T2W, DWI, and ADC MR sequences to identify regions of
interest and estimate the likelihood of malignancy as part of a concurrent reading workflow.
The core technological principles are similar. Both utilize AI-based algorithms trained on biopsy-
verified prostate MRI datasets. ProstatID employs Random Forest models, while DeepHealth
ProstateAI uses a convolutional neural network (CNN) architecture based on a 3D Retina U-Net
within the nnDetection framework. Despite differences in algorithm design, both perform
automated detection and characterization of lesions suspicious for prostate cancer using
multiparametric MRI data.
DeepHealth ProstateAI requires a binary prostate-gland segmentation and transformation
parameters as inputs, producing ROI-level segmentations with categorical classifications (low,
moderate, high) exported as DICOM Segmentation Objects or NIfTI files. ProstatID directly
analyzes MRI datasets without segmentation input, generating lesion- and prostate-level
malignancy likelihood scores, volumetric measurements, and PI-RADS-suggestive results as
DICOM overlays and PDF reports. Both are validated for use with MRI systems from Philips, GE,
and Siemens (1.5 T and 3 T) and integrate into PACS-based clinical workflows. The features are
consistent with capabilities found in legally marketed reference devices and do not raise new
questions of safety or effectiveness.
Target Population and UserBoth devices are intended for use by trained medical professionals: radiologists or other qualified
physicians experienced in interpreting prostate MRI exams. The workflow is a concurrent read,
where the AI-generated results are reviewed alongside the original MR images to support
detection and characterization of prostate abnormalities.
Each device is intended for use in adult male patients, aged 40 years and older, with a prostate
gland undergoing prostate MRI examinations, including those with clinical indicators or family
history suggestive of prostate cancer.
Output
Both devices provide AI-generated outputs designed to supplement a clinician’s review by
highlighting suspicious regions and indicating their likelihood of malignancy.
DeepHealth ProstateAI produces ROI-level segmentation maps with categorical classifications
(low, moderate, high) for display in compatible visualization platforms. ProstatID outputs lesion-
and prostate-level likelihood scores, volumetric data, and PI-RADS-suggestive exam scores as
DICOM overlays and PDF reports.
Although the output format differs, both provide equivalent clinical information to the interpreting
radiologist and serve as adjunctive tools for diagnostic support. Neither device is intended for
stand-alone diagnostic use, and the differences in presentation do not raise new questions of
safety or effectiveness.
7. Benefit-Risk Discussion
DeepHealth ProstateAI is intended to support detection of prostate cancer, which encompasses
both clinically significant prostate cancer (Grade Group ≥ 2) and clinically non-significant prostate
cancer (Grade Group 1). Detection of clinically significant prostate cancer is the principal clinical
objective of prostate MRI, as csPCa is the disease state responsible for prostate-cancer-specific
morbidity and mortality and is the threshold at which curative-intent treatment is generally
indicated. Detection of Grade Group 1 disease also has clinical value, as it supports enrollment in
active surveillance protocols, establishes a baseline for longitudinal monitoring of disease
progression, and informs shared patient-clinician decision-making.
As a computer-aided detection device, there is a risk that the identification of lesions suspicious
for cancer will not only increase the detection of true cancer but may also lead to biopsies of
lesions that are ultimately determined to be non-cancer. Quantib has applied a risk management
process in accordance with FDA recognized standards to identify, evaluate, and mitigate all
known hazards related to the Subject Device. The Risk Analysis for the Subject Device shows that
the implemented risk controls mitigate the identified hazards. Based on this analysis, the
probable benefits outweigh the probable risks, and the identified technological characteristic
difference does not raise different questions of safety or effectiveness.
8. Performance Data
Quality and safety
The design and development of DeepHealth ProstateAI were conducted in accordance with
applicable FDA-recognized consensus standards and guidance documents to ensure safety,effectiveness, and regulatory compliance. The following standards and guidance documents
were followed during development:
• FDA 21 CFR 820 Code of Federal Regulations Title 21 Part 820 Quality System Regulation
• ISO 14971:2019 – Medical Devices – Application of Risk Management to Medical Devices
(#5-125)
• IEC 62304:2015 – Medical Device Software – Software Life Cycles Processes (#13-79)
• IEC 62366:2020 - Medical devices - Part 1: Application of usability engineering to medical
devices (#5-129)
• IEC 82304-1:2016 Health software – Part 1: General requirements for product safety
• NEMA PS3 – Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) Set (#12-363)
• Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software Functions (June, 2023)
• Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: Software as a Medical Devices (SaMD): Clinical
Evaluation (December 2017)
• FDA Guidance Medical Device Use Safety: Applying Human Factors and Usability
Engineering into Medical Devices (February 2016)
• FDA Guidance: Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality System Considerations and
Content of Premarket Submissions (June, 2025)
All verification and validation activities, including software testing, cybersecurity evaluation, and
clinical performance assessments, were conducted in accordance with these standards. Testing
demonstrated that DeepHealth ProstateAI meets its specified performance claims and does not
raise new questions of safety or effectiveness when compared to the predicate device.
Training dataset
The DeepHealth ProstateAI device was developed using a diverse training dataset of
approximately 3,200 prostate MRI cases collected from six independent institutions across
multiple geographic regions. The dataset included a broad range of imaging protocols, scanner
types, and patient demographics to ensure clinical representativeness. Each case incorporated
radiologist assessments and pathology-confirmed findings obtained through systematic and/or
targeted biopsy, providing 883 lesion-level ground-truth labels. This diversity and quality of
reference data support robust algorithm performance and generalizability across varied clinical
environments and patient populations.
Performance testing
Validation of DeepHealth ProstateAI was conducted through comprehensive bench and clinical
performance testing, using datasets fully independent of those used for model training. Bench
testing evaluated image-processing, detection, segmentation, and classification functions on
prostate MRI, with results benchmarked against expert radiologist annotations and pathology-
confirmed reference standards.Clinical performance testing comprised a multi-reader, multi-case (MRMC) reader study and an
independent standalone assessment, both using a retrospectively collected dataset of 250
prostate MRI exams from multiple sites. Three cases were excluded from lesion-level analyses
due to unreliable cancer localization on imaging, yielding 247 cases for the reader study primary
endpoint. The reader study demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in case-level
detection with AI assistance (average AUC-LROC 0.626 to 0.724, p<0.05). The standalone study
achieved case-level AUC 0.819 and met all segmentation targets (mean DSC 0.535, mean MSD
1.641 mm); stratification showed the expected gradient across categories.
All testing met predefined acceptance criteria. Results support the safety and effectiveness of
DeepHealth ProstateAI across different scanner vendors, acquisition parameters, and diverse
patient populations, consistent with its intended use. No new questions of safety or effectiveness
were raised when compared to the predicate device.
9. Conclusion
The data presented in this premarket notification as described above, including the verification
and validation testing conducted and the risk management process followed in accordance with
FDA recognized standards to identify, evaluate, and mitigate all known hazards related to the
subject device, confirm that the subject device performs comparably to the predicate device. The
differences between the subject and predicate device do not alter the intended use of the device
and do not affect its safety and effectiveness when used as labeled. Therefore, the information
provided in this submission demonstrates that DeepHealth ProstateAI is substantially equivalent
to the predicate device, ProstatID (K212783).