March 9, 2026
Perspectum, Ltd.
Bhaskar Chikkanna
Director of Quality Assurance and Regulatory Affairs
Gemini One, 5520 John Smith Dr.
Oxford, OX42LL
United Kingdom
Re: K253413
Trade/Device Name: LiverMultiScan (v6.0)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.1000
Regulation Name: Magnetic Resonance Diagnostic Device
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: LNH
Dated: March 5, 2026
Received: March 5, 2026
Dear Bhaskar Chikkanna:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code ofK253413 - Bhaskar Chikkanna Page 2
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the Medical Device File (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact theK253413 - Bhaskar Chikkanna Page 3
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Daniel M. Krainak, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
DHT8C: Division of Radiological
Imaging and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureI
flO v e r-T h e -C o u n te r U s e (2 1 C F R 8 0 1 S u b p a rt C ) a p p lic a b le ).
P le a s e s e le c t th e ty p e s o f u s e s (s e le c t o n e o r b o th , a s D ) S u b p a rt 8 0 1 C F R 2 1 (P a rt U s e P re s c rip tio n
c h a ra c te ris tic s th a t m a y a s s is t in c lin ic a l d e c is io n s .
d a ta w h ic h , w h e n in te rp re te d b y a tra in e d h e a lth c a re p ro fe s s io n a l, y ie ld in fo rm a tio n o n liv e r tis s u e
T h e d e v ic e p ro d u c e s q u a n tifie d m e tric s a n d c o m p o s ite im a g e s fro m m a g n e tic re s o n a n c e m e d ic a l im a g e
im a g e d a ta .
in v a s iv e a s s e s s m e n t o f liv e r h e a lth a n d th e g e n e ra tio n , d is p la y a n d re v ie w o f m a g n e tic re s o n a n c e m e d ic
T h e d e v ic e is in d ic a te d fo r u s e a s a m a g n e tic re s o n a n c e d ia g n o s tic d e v ic e s o ftw a re a p p lic a tio n fo r n o n -
[
P le a s e p ro v id e y o u r In d ic a tio n s fo r U s e b e lo w .
(v 6 .0 ) IL iv e rM u ltiS c a n
P le a s e p ro v id e th e d e v ic e tra d e n a m e (s ).
te x tb o x w ill b e le ft b la n k fo r o rig in a l a p p lic a tio n s /s u b m is s io n s .
I K 2 5 3 4 1 3
P le a s e ty p e in th e m a rk e tin g a p p lic a tio n /s u b m is s io n n u m b e r, if it is k n o w n . T h is
I
I n d i c a t i o n s f o r U s e
a
7
l
ILiverMultiScan 510k Summary
K253413
Date Prepared: 11th December 2025
1 Applicant Details
Applicant Name and Address: Perspectum Ltd
Gemini One,
5520 John Smith Drive,
Oxford Business Park,
Oxford,
OX4 2LL
Owner/Operator Number: 10056574
Establishment Registration
Number: 3014232555
Applicant Contact Name: Bhaskar Chikkanna
Applicant Contact Email: bhaskar.chikkanna@perspectum.com
Applicant Contact Phone: +44 (0) 1865 655343
2 Subject and Predicate Device
Subject Device Predicate Device
510(k) number K253413 K213960
Legal Manufacturer Perspectum Ltd. Perspectum Ltd.
Device Trade Name LiverMultiScan (v6.0) LiverMultiScan (v5.0)
Software as a Medical Software as a Medical
Common Name
Device Device
Panel Radiology Radiology
Regulation 892.1000 892.1000
Risk Class Class II Class II
Product Class code LNH LNH
Magnetic Resonance Magnetic Resonance
Regulation Name
Diagnostic Device Diagnostic Device
3 Subject Device Description
3.1 General Description
LiverMultiScan is a standalone, post processing software as a medical device (SaMD). It enables the
generation, display and review of magnetic resonance (MR) medical image data for non-invasive
assessment of liver health based on imaging acquired during a single patient visit.
LiverMultiScan quantifies liver tissue characteristics from appropriately acquired MR datasets. It produces
three quantitative metrics: iron-corrected T1 (cT1): which reflects fibro-inflammatory disease activity of the
liver parenchyma, proton density fat fraction (PDFF): a measure of liver fat content, and liver
iron concentration (LIC). Each of these metrics is standardized to a single reference, ensuring that
reference ranges and clinical thresholds can be applied consistently, regardless of the MRI scanner used
to acquire the measurement. cT1, PDFF and LIC all have a valid and well-
founded correlation with liver histology and are associated with pathological processes such as fibro-
inflammation, steatosis, and iron overload, respectively.
Page 1 of 5VitruvianScan 510k Summary
3.2 Indications for Use
The device is indicated for use as a magnetic resonance diagnostic device software application for non-
invasive assessment of liver health and the generation, display and review of magnetic resonance medical
image data.
The device produces quantified metrics and composite images from magnetic resonance medical image data
which, when interpreted by a trained healthcare professional, yield information on liver tissue characteristics
that may assist in clinical decisions.
3.3 Intended Patient Population
General population — LiverMultiScan has no demographic or population restrictions.
3.4 Contraindications
• None – Software only device
3.5 Warnings/Precautions
• The device output must be interpreted by trained healthcare professionals
• Very high liver iron concentration in excess of 5 mg Fe/g may give rise to inaccurate results
• Very high liver fat (PDFF > 30 %) may reduce the accuracy of cT1
• LIC above 3.0 mg Fe/g may reduce the accuracy of cT1
• LIC can be underestimated when above 3.5 mg Fe/g and liver fat content (PDFF) is
between 10% and 25%.
4 Substantial Equivalence
Table below provides a comparison of attributes between the subject device and the predicate device to
demonstrate substantial equivalence. Differences between the devices are commented.
Attributes Subject Device Predicate Device Comments
Device trade name LiverMultiScan v6.0 LiverMultiScan v5.0 N/A
Manufacturer Perspectum Ltd Perspectum Ltd N/A
510(k) number (if K253413 K213960 N/A
assigned)
Regulation 892.1000 892.1000 No change
Product Code LNH LNH No change
Indications for use The device is indicated for LiverMultiScan v5 (LMSv5) Rephrased the
use as a magnetic is indicated for use as a indications for use for
resonance diagnostic magnetic resonance better readability without
device software diagnostic device software any change to its intent.
application for non- application for non-invasive
invasive assessment of liver evaluation that
liver health and the enables the generation,
generation, display and display and review of 2D
review of magnetic magnetic resonance
resonance medical image medical image data and
data. pixel maps for MR
relaxation times.
The device produces
quantified metrics and LMSv5 is designed to
composite images from utilize DICOM 3.0
magnetic resonance compliant magnetic
medical image data resonance image datasets,
which, when interpreted acquired from compatible
Page 2 of 5VitruvianScan 510k Summary
by a trained healthcare MR Systems, to display the
professional, yield internal structure of the
information on liver tissue abdomen including the
characteristics that liver. Other physical
may assist in clinical parameters derived from
d ecisions. the images may also be
produced.
LMSv5 provides several
tools, such as automated
liver segmentation and
region of interest (ROI)
placements, to be used for
the assessment of selected
regions of an image.
Quantitative assessment of
selected regions includes
the determination of
triglyceride fat fraction in
the liver (PDFF), T2*, LIC
(Liver Iron Concentration)
and iron corrected T1 (cT1)
measurements.
These images and the
physical parameters
derived from the images,
when interpreted by a
trained clinician, yield
information that may assist
i n diagnosis.
Intended users • Perspectum • Perspectum No change
trained analysts use trained analysts use the
the device device to analyse MRI
to analyse MRI data data and produce
and produce output. output.
• Trained healthcare • Trained healthcare
professionals interpret professionals interpret
the device the device
output for their clinical output for their clinical
decision pathways. decision pathways.
Anatomy and Liver Liver No change to the list of
measurements measurement output.
Iron Corrected T1 (cT1) Iron Corrected T1 (cT1) However, the equation
Proton Density Fat Proton Density Fat Fraction used to calculate the LIC
Fraction (PDFF) (PDFF) value has changed in the
Liver Iron Concentration Liver Iron Concentration subject device to align
(LIC) (LIC) with the reference
article. And, the cT1
calculation in the subject
device is updated to
account for T1 signal
variations due to elevated
fat in addition to what
Page 3 of 5VitruvianScan 510k Summary
already existed in the
predicate device.
Target population General population General population No change
Contraindications None, Software only None, Software only No change
Imaging modality Magnetic resonance Magnetic resonance No change
imaging systems imaging systems
Data format DICOM 3.0 compliant MR DICOM 3.0 compliant MR No change
image datasets from image datasets from
compatible MR scanners compatible MR scanners
MRI Scanners GE, Siemens and Philips GE, Siemens and Philips No change
MR field strength 1.5T and 3T 1.5T and 3T No change
MR Acquisition NOLLI (Non-MOLLI) MOLLI Subject device is
Methods MOLLI MOST modified to read MR scan
MOST IDEAL data acquired through
IDEAL NOLLI (non-MOLLI) in
additional to MOLLI
method.
5 Software Testing
LiverMultiScan is a software medical device. The documentation level evaluation document justifies only
basic documentation is applicable to LiverMultiScan as per FDA guidance, Content of Premarket
Submissions for Device Software Functions for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff Document
issued on June 14, 2023. The device has undergone the following tests and successfully passed the
acceptance criteria with no residual anomalies.
a. Unit testing
b. Integration testing
c. Software system verification
d. Software system validation
6 Performance Testing
LiverMultiScan underwent performance testing under controlled conditions to corroborate that it is safe and
effective when used as intended. The performance testing conducted demonstrates that the subject device
is at least as safe and effective as the predicate device.
Scanners Assessed
Siemens 1.5T
Siemens 3T
GE 1.5T
GE 3T
Philips 1.5T
Philips 3T
The performance was tested for the following aspects:
a. Testing to reflect substantial equivalence for corrected T1 measurements between
MOLLI and NOLLI
b. Repeatability of metrics for the same subject, on the same manufacturer and field strength,
acquired on the same day
c. Reproducibility of metrics for the same subject, on the same manufacturer but a different field
strength, acquired on the same day
d. Characterization of inter-operator variability
e. Characterization of intra-operator variability
Page 4 of 5VitruvianScan 510k Summary
f. Comparative testing between the operators’ results and the gold standard (mean of 3
radiologists results)
g. Phantom data used for testing accuracy of measurements
h. In-vivo data used for tests a to f
All aspects of the performance tests met the defined acceptance criteria, thereby assuring robust clinical
performance of the device across different scanners, field strengths and patient characteristics.
7 Conclusion
The subject device and the predicate device remain equivalent. The differences highlighted does not
constitute a new intended use, are accompanied by information that demonstrates that the device is as safe
and effective as the predicate and do not raise different questions of safety and effectiveness than the
predicate.
Page 5 of 5