March 6, 2026
Depuy Ireland UC
Anuradha Moholkar
Sr. Regulatory Affairs Program Lead
Loughbeg Ringaskiddy Ireland
Re: K253551
Trade/Device Name: VELYS™ Hip Navigation
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH, LLZ
Dated: February 9, 2026
Received: February 9, 2026
Dear Anuradha Moholkar:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.04
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK253551 - Anuradha Moholkar Page 2
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the Medical Device File (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. SeeK253551 - Anuradha Moholkar Page 3
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging Devices and
Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureK253551
510(k) Summary
Submitter Information
Applicant Name DePuy Ireland UC
Applicant Address Loughbeg Ringaskiddy Ireland
Applicant Contact Telephone +1 574-404-8348
Applicant Contact Ms. Erin Combs
Applicant Contact Email ecombs@its.jnj.com
Correspondent Name DePuy Ireland UC
Correspondent Address Loughbeg Ringaskiddy Ireland
Correspondent Contact Telephone +1 267-889-5354
Correspondent Contact Ms. Anuradha Moholkar
Correspondent Contact Email AMoholk1@its.jnj.com
Name of Device
Device Trade Name VELYS™ Hip Navigation
Common Name Medical image management and processing system
Classification Name System, Image Processing, Radiological
Regulation Number 892.2050
Product Code(s) QIH, LLZ
Legally Marketed Predicate Devices
Predicate K160284
Predicate Trade Name JointPoint
Product Code LLZ; HAW
Page 1 of 8Device Description Summary
VELYS™ Hip Navigation (VHN) is a Software as a Medical Device that provides the clinician with intra-operative measurements and
visuals of acetabular cup orientation, femoral component leg length and offset calculations, and implant constructs based on user-
defined, but machine learning (ML) default-positioned, bony-anatomy landmark points.
VHN includes a machine learning model that places the default position of the landmark based on the output of the model; the user
has full control to manipulate the landmark positions after placement. The model inputs the x-ray or fluoroscopy images and outputs a
default location for the landmark annotation tool. This machine learning model is Human-in-the-Loop, as the user is expected to
position the annotation as they see fit.
Intended Use/Indications for Use
VELYS™ Hip Navigation is an image-processing software indicated to assist in the positioning of total hip replacement components.
It is intended to assist in precisely positioning total hip replacement components intra-operatively by measuring their positions relative
to the bone structures of interest provided that the points of interest can be identified from radiology images.
VELYS™ Hip Navigation is also indicated for assisting healthcare professionals in preoperative planning and postoperative analysis
of orthopaedic surgery in Total Hip Replacement and Total Knee Replacement. The device allows for overlaying of prosthesis
templates on radiological images and includes tools for performing measurements on the image and for positioning the template.
Clinical judgment and experience are required to properly use the software. The software is not for primary image interpretation. The
software is not for use on mobile phones.
Technological Comparison
The subject device and the predicate device have similar technological characteristics with respect to principles of operation, system
design, and performance. The subject and predicate device achieve the same outcomes, however the main design difference of the
subject device includes a machine learning model that places the default position of a set of landmarks, where the user maintains
Page 2 of 8control and final confirmation of the landmark annotations. Performance testing on the subject device and comparison to the predicate
device support that there are no new questions of safety or effectiveness.
Predicate
Subject Device:
Characteristics Device: Discussion
VELYS™ Hip Navigation
JointPoint
K160284 K253551
Medical Specialty Radiology Radiology Identical
Regulation 21 CFR 892.2050 Picture archiving and 21 CFR 892.2050 Picture archiving and Identical
communications system communications system
Product Code LLZ System, image processing, QIH Automated radiological image Equivalent. Both devices use
radiological processing software anatomic landmarks identified from
HAW Neurological stereotaxic instrument LLZ System, image processing, radiology images to assist in
radiological positioning total hip replacement
components intraoperatively, and to
support preoperative planning in
total hip and total knee procedures
Intended Use JointPoint is a non-invasive software VELYS™ Hip Navigation is a non- Identical
(Software as a Medical Device) intended invasive software (Software as a Medical
to provide preoperative templating for Device) intended to provide preoperative
orthopedic procedures and intraoperative templating for orthopedic procedures and
data for total hip arthroplasties (THA). intraoperative data for total hip
arthroplasties (THA).
Page 3 of 8Indications for JointPoint is an image-processing VELYS™ Hip Navigation is an image- Identical. The indications for use
Use software indicated to assist in the processing software indicated to assist in of the subject device fall within the
positioning of total hip replacement the positioning of total hip replacement intended use of the predicate
components. It is intended to assist in components. It is intended to assist in device.
precisely positioning total hip precisely positioning total hip replacement
replacement components intra- components intra-operatively by
operatively by measuring their positions measuring their positions relative to the
relative to the bone structures of interest bone structures of interest provided that
provided that the points of interest can the points of interest can be identified
be identified from radiology images. from radiology images.
JointPoint is also indicated for assisting
VELYS Hip Navigation is also indicated
healthcare professionals in preoperative
for assisting healthcare professionals in
planning and postoperative analysis of
preoperative planning and postoperative
orthopedic surgery in Total Hip
analysis of orthopedic surgery in Total
Replacement, Total Knee Replacement,
Hip Replacement and Total Knee
and Intertrochanteric Fracture
Replacement. The device allows for
Reduction. The device allows for
overlaying of prosthesis templates on
overlaying of prosthesis templates on
radiological images and includes tools for
radiological images and includes tools
performing measurements on the image
for performing measurements on the
and for positioning the template. Clinical
image and for positioning the template.
judgment and experience are required to
Clinical judgment and experience are
properly use the software. The software is
required to properly use the software.
not for primary image interpretation. The
The software is not for primary image
software is not for use on mobile phones.
interpretation. The software is not for
use on mobile phones.
Anatomical Site Patients who are candidates for Patients who are candidates for total hip Identical. The target population of
and Target orthopedic procedures and total hip replacement and total knee replacement the subject device is within that of
Population replacement the predicate device. There are no
new questions of safety or
efficacy.
Environment of Physician’s office and operating room Physician’s office and operating room Identical
Use
Page 4 of 8PRINCIPLES OF OPERATION
Image Inputs Preoperative and intraoperative Preoperative and intraoperative Identical
radiographic patient images of the pelvis radiographic patient images of the pelvis
Pre-operative Preoperative templating: Preoperative templating: Identical
Analysis • Image import • Image import
• Image calibration • Image calibration
• User selected templates of • User selected templates of implants
implants for THA or TKA for THA or TKA
• Digital annotations • Digital annotations
• Leg length analysis tool (THA) • Leg length analysis tool (THA)
• Manual landmark selections • Manual landmark selections
Intraoperative • User places anatomical landmarks • When enabled, an ML model Equivalent. With the subject device,
Landmark on patient images using digital determines the default landmark when enabled, the default landmark
Selection tools (manual landmark selection) position. The user confirms and/or location is determined by an ML
• Surgeon confirms placement adjusts the landmark position using model. In both the subject device and
of landmarks digital tools. This feature is available the predicate device, the user can
in Windows Version only. move the landmark selections using
• Manual landmark selection is digital tools, and the surgeon must
available as an option confirm placement of the landmarks.
• Surgeon confirms placement of Performance testing did not raise new
issues of safety or efficacy.
landmarks
Intraoperative • Software provides leg length • Software provides leg length and Identical
Workflow and offset data for selected offset data for selected implant
Outputs implant constructs and constructs and alternatives
alternatives • Software provides inclination and
• Software provides inclination anteversion of the trial or final
and anteversion of the trial or acetabular implant
final acetabular implant • Manual landmark selection or
• Manual landmark selection AI assisted landmarking
Page 5 of 8Other Workflows • Contralateral overlay allows an • Contralateral overlay allows an Identical
anterior-posterior (AP) image of anterior-posterior (AP) image of the
the non-operative side to be non-operative side to be compared to
compared to the operative side. the operative side.
• OneTrial® Manual • OneTrial® Manual
landmark selection landmark selection
Operating System Windows, iOS Windows, iOS Identical. With the subject device,
the AI assisted landmark placement
is only available in the Windows
version. The iOS version of the
subject device is identical to the
predicate device.
Performance Testing Summary
Machine Learning Model Validation
Data collection: The x-ray and fluoroscopic image data used for model training were extracted from the VELYS™ Hip Navigation
software. Therefore, all training data are representative of expected disease state, situation, and demographics in which the
clinician determined that a total hip replacement surgery with the assistance of VHN was the appropriate treatment option. Clinical
institutions geographically spread across the US were strategically selected in an effort to capture the widest range of patient
populations and minimize bias.
Truthing process: Training data was pulled from user data from the production VHN software. Clinicians used the software and
annotated the patient images in a clinical setting. Therefore, the reference standard is the clinician’s annotations for each image which
was pulled with the image.
Page 6 of 8Data independence: The deidentified data used for model development consisted of 18,550 images, which was split into groups: 90%
for training, 5% for validation, and 5% for test. Validation was conducted through testing on independent datasets, ensuring no overlap
between training and testing data.
Model Performance Metrics: The table below summarizes the performance of three AI models evaluated for use within the VHN
software. Each model was tested using a standardized dataset to assess its ability to accurately detect and localize relevant features in
medical imaging. The metrics reported include:
• mAR (mean Average Recall): Measures how well the model identifies all relevant instances.
• mAP (mean Average Precision): Reflects the model’s overall precision in predicting correct locations.
• mAP@0.75: Indicates precision at a higher threshold of localization accuracy.
Model mAR mAP mAP@0.75
OneTrial 0.9920 0.9852 0.9900
CupCheckGuidedBilateral 0.9880 0.9798 1.0000
CupCheckGuidedUnilateral 0.9985 0.9968 1.0
Device Validation
Bench testing was performed on the subject device, VELYS Hip Navigation, in accordance with the product risk analysis and product
requirements, in line with 21 CFR Part 820, and to demonstrate substantial equivalence with the predicate device. Where available,
FDA-consensus standards and/or guidance documents were used.
Performance testing activity included:
1. Human vs AI System Output Validation
Validation Protocol: Human operators completed the VELYS Hip Navigation workflow for each of the test cases, manually
selecting the anatomic landmarks. Output values were recorded for each test case. The AI-Assisted Landmark feature was
enabled, and the workflow was completed for each of the test cases. Output values were recorded for each test case.
Page 7 of 8Acceptance Criteria: The passing criterion was for each of the 5 respective outputs (leg length, femoral offset, total offset, cup
inclination, and cup anteversion), the machine learning model generated data point was within the range of the human operator
data points on each of the test images.
Result: The study resulted in a Full Pass that validates the acceptance criteria stating that the machine learning model generated
data points fell within the range of manual operated data points for the VELYS Hip Navigation outputs of Leg Length, Femoral
Offset, Total Offset, Inclination, and Anteversion.
Workflow Efficiency: When AI-Assisted Landmarks are enabled, Human vs AI System Output Validation testing showed the
time to complete the workflows took less time than the manual cases.
2. Usability Equivalency Rationale
OneTrial and Cup Check workflow iteration has been found to be safe and effective for the intended users, uses, and use
environments.
DePuy Synthes performed and passed software verification and system validation testing on the device. All software requirements and
risk analysis have been successfully verified and traced.
No clinical data was necessary to support the determination of substantial equivalence.
Conclusions
Both the subject device and predicate device have the same intended use, same indications for use, and similar technological
characteristics. Where there are technological differences, performance testing was conducted on the subject device to show that no
new questions of safety or effectiveness were raised; therefore, DePuy Synthes concludes that the subject and predicate devices are
substantially equivalent.
Page 8 of 8