March 2, 2026
Clarius Mobile Health Corp.
Agatha Szeliga
Director, Regulatory Affairs
205-2980 Virtual Way
Vancouver, BC V5M 4X3
Canada
Re: K253593
Trade/Device Name: Clarius Ejection Fraction AI
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: January 30, 2026
Received: January 30, 2026
Dear Agatha Szeliga:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
FDA's substantial equivalence determination also included the review and clearance of your Predetermined
Change Control Plan (PCCP). Under section 515C(b)(1) of the Act, a new premarket notification is not
required for a change to a device cleared under section 510(k) of the Act, if such change is consistent with an
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.04
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK253593 - Agatha Szeliga Page 2
established PCCP granted pursuant to section 515C(b)(2) of the Act. Under 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3), a new
premarket notification is required if there is a major change or modification in the intended use of a device,
or if there is a change or modification in a device that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of
the device, e.g., a significant change or modification in design, material, chemical composition, energy
source, or manufacturing process. Accordingly, if deviations from the established PCCP result in a major
change or modification in the intended use of the device, or result in a change or modification in the device
that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, then a new premarket notification
would be required consistent with section 515C(b)(1) of the Act and 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3). Failure to submit
such a premarket submission would constitute adulteration and misbranding under sections 501(f)(1)(B) and
502(o) of the Act, respectively.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the Medical Device File (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.K253593 - Agatha Szeliga Page 3
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging Devices and
Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureK253593
510(k) Summary
This 510(k) summary of safety and effectiveness information is submitted in accordance with the
requirements of 21 CFR § 807.92.
Subject Device Trade Name: Clarius Ejection Fraction AI
Device Classification Name: Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Regulation Number, Name and Product Code:
Regulation Number Regulation Name Product Code
21 CFR § 892.2050 Medical Image Management and Processing System QIH
FDA 510(k) Review Panel: Radiology
Classification: Class II
Manufacturer: Clarius Mobile Health Corp.
205-2980 Virtual Way
Vancouver, BC V5M 4X3 Canada
Contact Name: Agatha Szeliga
Director, Regulatory Affairs
agatha.szeliga@clarius.com
Date 510(k) Summary Prepared: February 28, 2026
Predicate Device Information:
Device Trade Name: Caption Interpretation Automated Ejection Fraction
Software
510(k) Reference: K210747
Manufacturer Name: Caption Health, Inc.
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management and Processing System
Device Classification Name: Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Primary Product Code: QIH
Regulation Number: 21 CFR § 892.2050
Regulatory Class: Class II
Note: The predicate device has not been subject to a design-related recall.
Device Description
Clarius Ejection Fraction AI is a machine learning algorithm that is integrated into the Clarius App software
as part of the complete Clarius Ultrasound Scanner system for use in cardiac ultrasound applications,
specifically intended for use by trained healthcare practitioners for semi-automatic real-time
Page 1 of 15K253593
measurement of the left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (EF) on ultrasound image data acquired by the
Clarius Ultrasound Scanner system (i.e., phased array and curvilinear scanners) using a deep learning
image segmentation algorithm.
During the ultrasound imaging procedure, the anatomical site is selected through a preset software
selection (i.e., Cardiac Basic, Cardiac Advanced) from the Clarius App in which Clarius Ejection Fraction AI
will engage when enabled by the user to place a segmentation mask or landmark markers on the
ultrasound image to identify the left ventricle (LV) in both End Diastolic (ED) and End Systolic (ES) phases.
Using the segmentation volume or landmark markers in both phases, Clarius Ejection Fraction AI will
calculate the EF of the cardiac images obtained in Parasternal Long Axis (PLAX), Parasternal Short Axis
(PSAX), and Apical (AP4, AP2) views.
Clarius Ejection Fraction AI operates by performing the following tasks:
• Automatic capture of the ED and ES frames used to create the EF measurement
• Automatic calculations and measurements for the left ventricular ejection fraction.
The user has the option to manually adjust the measurements made by Clarius Ejection Fraction AI by
moving the caliper crosshairs. Clarius Ejection Fraction AI does not perform any functions that could not
be accomplished manually by a trained and qualified user.
Clarius Ejection Fraction AI is an assistive tool intended to inform clinical management and is not intended
to replace clinical decision-making. The clinician retains the ultimate responsibility of ascertaining the
measurements based on standard practices and clinical judgment. Clarius Ejection Fraction AI is indicated
for use only in adult patients.
Clarius Ejection Fraction AI is integrated into the Clarius App software, which is compatible with iOS and
Android operating systems two versions prior to the latest iOS or Android stable release build and is
intended for use with the following Clarius Ultrasound Scanner system transducers (previously 510(k)-
cleared in K213436 and K232704). Clarius Ejection Fraction AI is not a stand-alone software device.
Clarius Ultrasound Transducers PA HD3; PAL HD3; C3 HD3
Clarius Ultrasound App (Clarius App) for iOS;
Clarius App Software
Clarius Ultrasound App (Clarius App) for Android
Indications for Use for Clarius Ejection Fraction AI
Clarius Ejection Fraction AI is intended for semi-automatic non-invasive measurement of the left
ventricular ejection fraction on ultrasound data acquired by the Clarius Ultrasound Scanner (i.e., phased
array and curvilinear scanners). The user shall be a healthcare professional trained and qualified in
ultrasound. The user retains the responsibility of confirming the validity of the measurements based on
standard practices and clinical judgment. Clarius Ejection Fraction Al is intended for use in adult patients
only.
Page 2 of 15K253593
Comparison of the Subject Device and Legally Marketed Device for Demonstration of Substantial
Equivalence
The following table provides a comparison of the subject device, Clarius Ejection Fraction AI, to the
predicate device, Caption Interpretation Automated Ejection Fraction Software. The comparison of the
subject device to the legally marketed device shows that the subject device has the same intended use,
similar indications for use, the same principle of operation, and is based on a similar AI/ML algorithm for
measurement of left ventricular ejection fraction, comparable to the legally marketed device referenced
herein.
Page 3 of 15K253593
Table 1 - Comparison of the Subject Device to the Legally Marketed Device
Criteria SUBJECT DEVICE PREDICATE DEVICE
RATIONALE
Device Trade Name Caption Interpretation (if subject device differs from
Clarius Ejection Fraction AI Automated Ejection Fraction predicate device)
Software
510(k) Holder/ Manufacturer Clarius Mobile Health Corp. Caption Health, Inc. Not applicable
Submission Reference Current Submission K210747 Not applicable
Primary Product Code QIH QIH Same as predicate device.
Device Classification Name Automated Radiological Automated Radiological Same as predicate device.
Image Processing Software Image Processing Software
Regulation Name Medical Image Management and Medical Image Management and Same as predicate device.
Processing System Processing System
Regulation Number 21 CFR § 892.2050 21 CFR § 892.2050 Same as predicate device.
Intended Use Intended for use as an assistive Intended for use as an assistive Same as predicate device.
tool utilizing an artificial tool utilizing an artificial
intelligence/machine learning- intelligence/machine learning-
based algorithm for semi- based algorithm for semi-
automated measurement of automated measurement of
cardiac ultrasound images for cardiac ultrasound images for
determination of left ventricular determination of left ventricular
ejection fraction. ejection fraction.
Indications for Use Clarius Ejection Fraction AI is The Caption Interpretation Equivalent to the predicate
intended for semi-automatic Automated Ejection Fraction device. Both the subject device
non-invasive measurement of software is used to process and the predicate device are
the left ventricular ejection previously acquired indicated for automated/semi-
fraction on ultrasound data transthoracic cardiac ultrasound automated measurement of the
acquired by the Clarius images, to store images, and to left ventricular ejection fraction
Ultrasound Scanner (i.e., manipulate and make on ultrasound data acquired using
phased array and curvilinear measurements on ultrasound devices. Both devices
scanners). The user shall be a images using an ultrasound are intended for use as assistive
healthcare professional device, personal computer, or a “tools” to aid the clinician in
trained and qualified in compatible DICOM-compliant performing cardiac assessments.
ultrasound. The user retains PACS system in The minor differences in the
the responsibility of order to provide automated indications for use between the
confirming the validity of the estimation of left ventricular subject device and the predicate
Page 4 of 15K253593
Criteria SUBJECT DEVICE PREDICATE DEVICE
RATIONALE
Device Trade Name Caption Interpretation (if subject device differs from
Clarius Ejection Fraction AI Automated Ejection Fraction predicate device)
Software
measurements based on ejection fraction. This device do not impact the safety
standard practices and clinical measurement can be used to and effectiveness of the subject
judgment. Clarius Ejection assist the clinician in a cardiac device relative to the predicate
Fraction Al is intended for use evaluation. device.
in adult patients only. The Caption Interpretation
Automated Ejection Fraction
Software is indicated for use in
adult patients.
Radiological application/ Ultrasound Ultrasound Same as predicate device.
Supported modality
Principle of Operation/ Ultrasound image processing Ultrasound image processing Same as predicate device.
Technology software implementing artificial software implementing artificial
intelligence utilizing non-adaptive intelligence utilizing non-adaptive
machine learning algorithms machine learning algorithms
trained with clinical and/or trained with clinical and/or
artificial data intended for artificial data intended for
measurements of cardiac measurements of cardiac
ultrasound data. ultrasound data.
Quantitative and/or Qualitative LV EF measurement LV EF measurement Same as predicate device.
Analysis
Segmentation Yes – Segmentation of anatomical Yes – Segmentation of anatomical Same as predicate device.
structures (cardiac anatomy/ structures (cardiac anatomy/
heart) heart)
Measurement Yes – Measurement of LV ejection Yes – Measurement of LV ejection Same as predicate device.
fraction fraction
Algorithm Methodology Artificial Intelligence (AI)/Machine Artificial Intelligence (AI)/Machine Same as predicate device.
Learning (ML) Learning (ML)
Automation Yes Yes Same as predicate device.
(Yes or No)
Manual adjustment/Manual Yes Yes Same as predicate device.
editing capability
(Yes or No)
Page 5 of 15K253593
Criteria SUBJECT DEVICE PREDICATE DEVICE
RATIONALE
Device Trade Name Caption Interpretation (if subject device differs from
Clarius Ejection Fraction AI Automated Ejection Fraction predicate device)
Software
Environment of Use Professional healthcare setting Professional healthcare setting Same as predicate device.
(e.g., hospital, clinic) (e.g., hospital, clinic)
Anatomical Site Heart Heart Same as predicate device.
Intended Users Licensed healthcare professionals Licensed healthcare professionals Same as predicate device.
Patient Population Adults Adults Same as reference device.
Page 6 of 15K253593
Non-Clinical Performance Testing Summary
Clarius Ejection Fraction AI was designed and developed by Clarius Mobile Health Corp. in accordance
with the applicable requirements, design controls, and standards to establish safety and effectiveness of
the device.
Non-clinical performance testing has demonstrated that Clarius Ejection Fraction AI complies with the
following FDA-recognized consensus standards:
Standard Title of Standard
Recognition
Number
13-79 IEC 62304:2006 + A1:2015 - Medical device software — Software life cycle processes
5-125 ISO 14971:2019 Medical devices — Application of risk management to medical devices
5-129 IEC 62366-1:2015 + A1:2020 Medical devices — Part 1: Application of usability engineering to
medical devices
5-134 ISO 15223-1:2021 Medical devices — Symbols to be used with medical device labels, labelling
and information to be supplied
Safety and performance of Clarius Ejection Fraction AI have been evaluated through verification and
validation testing in accordance with applicable specifications, acceptance criteria, and performance
standards. The traceability analysis provides traceability between the requirement specifications, design
specifications, risks, and verification testing of the subject device. All requirements and risk controls have
been successfully verified and traced. A comprehensive risk analysis was performed for the subject device
and appropriate risk controls have been implemented to mitigate hazards.
Software verification and validation activities were conducted in accordance with IEC 62304:2006 +
AMD1:2015 – Medical device software – Software lifecycle processes and ISO 14971:2019 Medical devices
– Application of risk management to medical devices, and in accordance with relevant FDA guidance
documents, General Principles of Software Validation, Final Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff (issued
January 11, 2002), Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software Functions
(issued June 14, 2023), and Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality System Considerations and Content
of Premarket Submissions (issued September 27, 2023).
Cybersecurity and vulnerability analyses were conducted, and it has been determined that Clarius
conforms to the cybersecurity requirements by implementing a process of preventing unauthorized
access, modifications, misuse or denial of use, or the unauthorized use of information that is stored,
accessed or transferred from a medical device to an external recipient.
The following processes were followed and applied during the design and development of Clarius Ejection
Fraction AI:
• Risk Analysis
• Design Reviews
• Integration Testing
• System Testing
• Performance Testing
• Usability Engineering
• Software Verification & Validation
Page 7 of 15K253593
• Cybersecurity Analysis
Clarius Ejection Fraction AI was tested and was found to be safe and effective for the intended use,
intended users, intended patient population, and use environments, as demonstrated through verification
and validation testing evaluating its clinical usage and performance. Validation testing was performed to
ensure that the final product meets the requirements for the specified clinical application and performs
as intended to meet users’ needs, while demonstrating substantial equivalence to the predicate device.
Clinical Performance Evaluation Summary
Following the completion of Clarius Ejection Fraction AI model algorithmic development (i.e., training,
tuning/ validation, and internal testing), which was intended to create a documented baseline of the AI
model, clinical verification testing and clinical design validation were performed to evaluate its clinical
performance. Data used for model development was collected from the Clarius Cloud and/or partner
clinics and was partitioned by unique anonymous patient identifiers to ensure there was no data overlap
between the training, internal testing, and clinical verification datasets.
As part of the truthing process, Clarius only included data from the institutions/clinical sites that were not
represented in the data used for algorithmic development of the Clarius Ejection Fraction AI model (i.e.,
training, tuning, and internal testing data) to prevent data leakage. The exclusion criteria used were that
images of inadequate quality were not added to the sample size (non-diagnostic images with artifacts
obstructing specific anatomy) and images with incomplete anatomy and views. In measurement
comparisons, Clarius excluded the subjects where the Ejection Fraction AI model failed to generate a
measurement since there was no value to compare. To aggregate measurements from different truthers,
the mean of the three values was taken and was treated as one reviewer mean. No clinical information
was provided to the clinicians regarding patients utilized in the clinical truthing process. The clinicians only
had access to the ultrasound image for identifying the cardiac anatomy, segmenting the left ventricle, and
performing measurements. The lighting and monitor size/resolution were operator-dependent using their
clinical judgement. The truthing process was not based on any follow-up medical examination.
The clinical performance of Clarius Ejection Fraction AI was evaluated through a retrospective analysis of
anonymized ultrasound images obtained from multiple clinical sites predominantly from the United
States, representing different ethnic groups, genders, and ages. The clinical verification data to evaluate
the clinical performance of Clarius Ejection Fraction AI was entirely independent from the training, tuning
(validation) and internal testing datasets used in the development of the AI model.
The Clarius Ejection Fraction AI Deep Neural Network (DNN) model was developed and trained using three
data sets: training, tuning, and internal testing. The DNN parameters and weights were updated on the
training data and evaluated on the validation (tuning) data at each epoch. Once the AI model was fully
trained, its generalizability was tested by evaluating it on the internal testing dataset (internal testing prior
to clinical (external) verification). The internal test data was fully independent of the training/tuning
dataset and was labelled by experts. Then, following internal testing, a single model was selected, and a
completely separate test dataset was used for performance testing of the AI model (clinical verification).
This verification dataset was independent of the training/tuning, and internal testing datasets, in order to
ensure robust results.
Summary of the Clinical Verification Study
Ultrasound images were randomly obtained from an anonymized multi-center database of images from
the United States, Canada, Germany, Turkey, United Kingdom, Philippines, Australia, Italy, Sweden,
Page 8 of 15K253593
Mexico, Belgium, Singpaore, El Salvador, Lithuania, Norway, Venezuela, Malaysia, Switzerland, South
Africa, Indonesia, Greece, Nigeria, New Zealand, Austria, Morocco, Iraq, South Korea, Jamaica, Israel,
Taiwan, The Netherlands, Dominican Republic, Uganda, Ireland, Bahrain, and Vatican, representing
various ethnicities, genders, and ages of the subjects. The verification study was conducted using de-
identified ultrasound data previously collected and stored on a cloud platform. No clinical or
sociodemographic information—such as age, gender, or clinical diagnosis—was available or accessible at
any point during the study. This data was fully anonymized prior to Clarius’ access and use, in accordance
with applicable privacy laws and ethical guidelines. Institutions included in the Clarius Ejection Fraction AI
model development (i.e., training, tuning, and internal testing datasets) were excluded from this study.
Images of the cardiac anatomy were collected and the total sample size included in the study was 279
exams, with the majority representing patients from the United States. The geographic distribution of
data collected is shown in Table 1:
Table 1: Geographic Data
Location Number of Images
United States 72
Canada 44
Germany 22
Unknown 21
Turkey 18
United Kingdom 10
Philippines 9
Australia 8
Italy 7
Sweden 7
Mexico 6
Belgium 5
Singapore 5
El Salvador 4
Lithuania 4
Norway 3
Venezuela 3
Malaysia 2
Switzerland 2
South Africa 2
Indonesia 2
Greece 2
Nigeria 2
New Zealand 2
Austria 2
Morocco 2
Iraq 2
South Korea 1
Page 9 of 15K253593
Jamaica 1
Israel 1
Taiwan 1
The Netherlands 2
Dominican Republic 1
Uganda 1
Ireland 1
Bahrain 1
Vatican 1
Total 279
The primary objective of the retrospective verification study was to determine whether Clarius Ejection
Fraction AI measurements are non-inferior to those obtained manually by human experts/qualified
ultrasound users by determining if the magnitude of the mean absolute difference between Clarius
Ejection Fraction AI and mean reviewer measurements is greater than the magnitude of the mean
absolute difference among reviewers themselves. The significance level was set to 0.025, and the
equivalence margin was set at 10% (0.10). The secondary objective was to determine the correlation
between Clarius Ejection Fraction AI predictions and those of human experts among the different Clarius
scanner models (i.e., C3 HD3, PA HD3).
Each reviewer was blinded to the Clarius Ejection Fraction AI output and the other reviewers' annotations.
All ultrasound exams were captured using Clarius’ 510(k)-cleared curvilinear and phased array ultrasound
scanners.
An assessment of the magnitude of the difference between Clarius Ejection Fraction AI and human
experts’ ejection fraction measurement data was performed to ascertain whether Clarius Ejection
Fraction AI measurement is non-inferior to those of human experts/ qualified ultrasound users.
The mean absolute difference between reviewer pairs was calculated and compared to the mean absolute
difference between the Clarius Ejection Fraction AI measurement and mean reviewer measurement using
a one-sided t-test and an equivalence/error margin of 10%. The automatic LV EF measurement was found
to be non-inferior to that of experienced ultrasound users as shown by statistically significant p-values of
5.57e-21 (97.5%CI: -inf, -3.00), 1.57e-36 (97.5%CI: -inf, -2.1) and 1.12e-18 (97.5%CI: -inf, -2.38) for the
Apical, PSAX and PLAX views respectively.
The automatic EF measurement was found to be non-inferior with statistically significant p-values for the
various views/measurement methods. The non-inferiority performance testing summary is shown in
Table 2:
Table 2: Non-Inferiority (T-Test) Result Summary for Clinical Performance of Clarius Ejection Fraction AI
EF measurement Scanning p-value t-value Equivalence Mean
method view Margin Difference
Simpsons single Apical 5.57e-21 -11 10 -6.27
plane (97.5%CI: -inf, -
3.00)
Page 10 of 15K253593
Fractional Area PSAX 1.57e-36 -18 10 -3.87
Change (97.5%CI: - inf, -
2.18)
Teicholz method PLAX 1.12e-18 -10 10 -5.92
(97.5%CI: -
inf, -2.38)
The Intraclass Correlation Coefficient (ICC) was calculated to show reliability among reviewers and Clarius
EF AI for the various views/measurement methods, as shown in Table 3 below:
Table 3: ICC values of Reviewers and Clarius Ejection Fraction AI
Comparison Pair ICC 95% CI
Reviewer1 vs. Reviewer2 0.67 [0.59 0.74]
Reviewer1 vs. Reviewer3 0.64 [0.53 0.71]
Reviewer2 vs. Reviewer3 0.54 [0.41 0.64]
AI_EF vs. Mean_Reviewers 0.78 [0.71 0.83]
The results of the clinical verification study (retrospective analysis) evaluating the performance of Clarius
Ejection Fraction AI have demonstrated that Clarius Ejection Fraction AI’s performance is non-inferior to
that of experienced ultrasound reviewers/clinicians for measurement of the left ventricular ejection
fraction, thus meeting the primary objective of the study. Furthermore, the study validated that there is
moderate to good correlation between human experts and Clarius EF AI across different Clarius scanners
(C3 HD3 and PA HD3).
Therefore, the clinical performance of Clarius Ejection Fraction AI has been adequately verified for
automated left ventricular ejection fraction measurements and has been determined to be as reliable and
accurate as compared to human clinical experts.
Summary of the Clinical Validation Study
A clinical validation study was conducted to evaluate the design and clinical usage of Clarius Ejection
Fraction AI, as it is integrated into the Clarius App software, to determine if it performs as intended in a
representative user environment, meets the product requirements, is clinically usable, and meets users’
needs for use in semi-automated measurements of the left ventricular ejection fraction. Testing was
performed using production equivalent units in a simulated use environment.
The results of the clinical validation study showed consistent results among all users, meeting the pre-
defined acceptance criteria. The users were able to activate Clarius Ejection Fraction AI using Clarius’
curvilinear and phased array ultrasound scanners (i.e., C3 HD3, PA HD3), image the cardiac anatomy to
identify the left ventricle, perform live segmentation with the segmentation mask or landmark markers,
perform automated measurements of the ejection fraction of the cardiac images obtained in PLAX, PSAX,
and/or Apical (AP2 and/or AP4) chamber views, visualize the ES and ED frames that the AI uses in
calculating the EF, manually adjust the measurements, change the segmentation mask opacity, and
display and save the LV EF measurement with each exam.
Therefore, based on the results of the clinical validation study it has been determined that Clarius Ejection
Fraction AI performs as intended and meets user needs for use in semi-automated left ventricular ejection
fraction measurements in cardiac ultrasound applications.
Page 11 of 15K253593
Predetermined Change Control Plan (PCCP)
Clarius Ejection Fraction AI uses a machine learning (ML) algorithm for automated measurement of the
left ventricular ejection fraction on ultrasound image data acquired by the Clarius Ultrasound Scanner.
Modifications to Clarius Ejection Fraction AI will be made in accordance with its Predetermined Change
Control Plan (PCCP). The PCCP provides a description of the device’s planned modifications, a
modification protocol to test, verify, validate, and implement the modifications in a manner that ensures
the continued safety and effectiveness of the device, while mitigating any risks associated with changes
to the Ejection Fraction AI model to not adversely impact the device’s performance, safety, or
effectiveness associated with its indications for use, and an impact assessment of the planned
modifications.
The modifications outlined in the PCCP are summarized in the table below. In accordance with the PCCP,
the modified Clarius Ejection Fraction AI model will be adequately trained, tuned, tested, and validated
before release of the modified Ejection Fraction AI model. Implemented modifications to the Clarius
Ejection Fraction AI algorithm will be communicated to users via the Clarius App software update
notification and through updated labelling.
Summary of planned modifications to Clarius Ejection Fraction AI per the PCCP:
Modification Rationale Testing Methods Impact Assessment
Modification of data To add data from Internal testing, clinical By accommodating a
input sources (Clarius current Clarius design validation and wider array of image
ultrasound scanners) scanners and future usability validation to geometries and
510(k) cleared Clarius assess the model’s characteristics with
scanners to the Clarius performance and ensure the use of new
Ejection Fraction AI it performs as intended 510(k)-cleared
model so the model to meet users’ needs. Clarius ultrasound
can be deployed on scanners, the
more scanners. updated Ejection
Fraction AI model
will be better
equipped to handle
different transducer
models of the
Clarius Ultrasound
Scanner used in
varying clinical
scenarios.
Benefit-Risk
Analysis:
Benefits: Enhanced
compatibility;
Flexibility for diverse
clinical settings.
Risks: Data skewing
and concept drift.
Page 12 of 15K253593
Modification Rationale Testing Methods Impact Assessment
Risk Mitigation:
Internal testing to
ensure that data
skewing and
concept drift are
mitigated.
Modification of training Improvement and Re-training of the Improved
hyperparameters (initial optimization of Clarius Ejection Fraction AI performance
learning rate, width Ejection Fraction AI’s model with modified metrics of modified
multiplier, dropout rate) performance hyperparameters to Ejection Fraction AI
optimize its performance model with
followed by internal increased accuracy
testing and a comparison and more robust
of the original Ejection measurements
Fraction AI model to the displayed to users.
modified Ejection
Fraction AI model (using Benefit-Risk
performance metrics) Analysis:
followed with clinical Benefits: Improved
performance testing performance;
(verification and generalization.
validation). Risks: Overfitting;
unintended bias.
Risk Mitigation:
Proper
regularization
techniques and
cross-validation and
dropout will be
employed to
mitigate overfitting.
Internal testing and
verification will be
conducted to
mitigate unintended
biases.
Modification of post- Improvement and Internal testing and a Improved
processing steps optimization of Clarius comparison of the performance
Ejection Fraction AI’s original Ejection Fraction metrics of modified
performance and AI model to the modified Ejection Fraction AI
robustness Ejection Fraction AI model.
model (using
performance metrics) Benefit-Risk
and clinical performance Analysis:
Page 13 of 15K253593
Modification Rationale Testing Methods Impact Assessment
testing (verification and Benefits: Improved
validation). performance;
generalization.
Risks: Overfitting;
unintended bias.
Risk Mitigation:
Proper
regularization
techniques and
cross-validation and
dropout will be
employed to
mitigate overfitting.
Internal testing and
verification will be
conducted to
mitigate unintended
biases.
Modification of masked Optimization of model Internal testing and a Improved
autoencoder robustness, accuracy, comparison of the performance
architecture and training and generalizability original Ejection Fraction metrics of modified
across diverse patient AI model to the modified Ejection Fraction AI
populations and Ejection Fraction AI model with
scanning conditions model (using increased accuracy,
performance metrics) improved
and clinical performance generalizability, and
testing (verification and more robust
validation). measurements
displayed to users.
Benefit-Risk
Analysis:
Benefits: Improved
performance;
generalization.
Risks: Overfitting;
unintended bias.
Risk Mitigation:
Proper
regularization
techniques and
cross-validation and
dropout will be
Page 14 of 15K253593
Modification Rationale Testing Methods Impact Assessment
employed to
mitigate overfitting.
Internal testing and
verification will be
conducted to
mitigate unintended
biases.
Conclusion & Summary of Substantial Equivalence
Based on the information presented in this Traditional 510(k) premarket notification and based on the
fundamental scientific technology utilizing artificial intelligence/machine learning algorithms,
technological characteristics, principle of operation, intended use, intended patient population, and
environment of use, Clarius Ejection Fraction AI has been determined to be substantially equivalent in
terms of safety and effectiveness to the legally marketed predicate device, Caption Interpretation
Automated Ejection Fraction Software (K210747).
The subject device and the predicate device employ radiological (ultrasound) image processing software
applications which implement artificial intelligence/machine learning algorithms trained with clinical
and/or artificial data intended for analysis of ultrasound data, utilizing very similar machine-learning
algorithms for detection, segmentation, and measurement of left ventricular ejection fraction.
Performance testing of Clarius Ejection Fraction AI, including the results from clinical verification and
validation studies, has demonstrated that Clarius Ejection Fraction AI automated measurement
adequately aligns with expert clinicians’ manual measurements, and thereby performs as intended for
use in semi-automated cardiac ultrasound measurements of the left ventricular ejection fraction.
Any differences in the indications for use or technological characteristics between the subject device and
the legally marketed predicate device do not raise any issues related to safety or effectiveness. Therefore,
Clarius Ejection Fraction AI is as safe and effective as the predicate device, Caption Interpretation
Automated Ejection Fraction Software (K210747), and therefore substantially equivalent.
Page 15 of 15