April 10, 2026
Overjet, Inc.
℅ Gayatri Sekaran
Head of Regulatory
200 State St.
Suite 1220
BOSTON, MA 02109
Re: K253930
Trade/Device Name: Overjet Iris Intelligent Imaging System
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: December 9, 2025
Received: March 16, 2026
Dear Gayatri Sekaran:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.04
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK253930 - Gayatri Sekaran Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K253930 - Gayatri Sekaran Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Lu Jiang
Lu Jiang, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Diagnostic X-Ray Systems Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureI
Indications for Use
Please type in the marketing application/submission number, if it is known. This K253930
?
textbox will be left blank for original applications/submissions.
Please provide the device trade name(s).
IOverjet Iris Intelligent Imaging System
Please provide your Indications for Use below.
Overjet Iris Intelligent Imaging System is a web-based dental image management software (Picture
Archiving and Communication System, PACS). The system enables acquisition, cloud-based storage,
archival, display, and distribution of digital dental images. Images can be acquired from dental image
acquisition devices (intraoral sensors or extraoral panoramic machines) and/or consumer imaging devices
such as color digital cameras.
In addition, the system provides automated identification and reporting of image capture quality issues,
including the presence of intraoperative tools within the field of view, cone cut, overlapping interproximal
contacts, inadequate crestal bone coverage, inadequate apical coverage, inadequate coronal coverage,
foreshortening, and elongation. These image quality indicators are intended to assist clinicians in evaluating
the adequacy of intraoral radiographs but are not a substitute for professional clinical judgment.
The device is intended to provide images for review and diagnostic use by trained dental professionals
I
Please select the types of uses (select one or both, as Z Prescription Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart D)
applicable). [ Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)K253930 - 510(k) Summary
This summary of 510(k) information is being submitted in accordance with the requirements
of 21CFR Part 807.92
1. Date
April 08, 2026
2. Applicant
Overjet, Inc.
200 State St
Suite 1220
Boston, MA 02109
Contact Person: Gayatri Sekaran
Email: gayatri.sekaran@overjet.ai
3. Trade Name
Overjet Iris Intelligent Imaging System
4. Common Name
Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
5. Classification
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical image management and processing system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product code: QIH
Review Panel: Radiology
6. Device Description
The Overjet Iris Intelligent Imaging System is a Medical Image Management and Processing
System (MIMPS) device intended for use in dental practices. The system enables the
acquisition, storage, display, and basic manipulation of digital dental images, including
intraoral radiographs (bitewing, periapical), extraoral radiographs (panoramic), and
intraoral/extraoral color photographs.
In addition to image capture and storage, the device incorporates AI/ML algorithms for image
quality identification. These algorithms analyze bitewing and periapical radiographs
immediately after acquisition and provide advisory indications of potential image qualityissues, including cone cuts, overlapping contacts, inadequate apical coverage, tube
angulation errors etc.
7. Indications for Use
Overjet Iris Intelligent Imaging System is a web-based dental image management software
(Picture Archiving and Communication System, PACS). The system enables acquisition,
cloud-based storage, archival, display, and distribution of digital dental images. Images can be
acquired from dental image acquisition devices (intraoral sensors or extraoral panoramic
machines) and/or consumer imaging devices such as color digital cameras.
In addition, the system provides automated identification and reporting of image capture
quality issues, including the presence of intraoperative tools within the field of view, cone cut,
overlapping interproximal contacts, inadequate crestal bone coverage, inadequate apical
coverage, inadequate coronal coverage, foreshortening, and elongation. These image quality
indicators are intended to assist clinicians in evaluating the adequacy of intraoral radiographs
but are not a substitute for professional clinical judgment.
The device is intended to provide images for review and diagnostic use by trained dental
professionals
8. Predicate Device
Device: VistaSoft 4.0 and VisionX 4.0
Manufacturer: Durr Dental SE
Common Name: Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical image management and processing system
Regulatory Class: Class II
510(k) : K250947
Product code: QIH
9. Indications for Use Comparison:
The indications for Use for Iris Intelligent System is determined to be substantially equivalent
to the predicate device. Both the Iris Intelligent Imaging System and the predicate VistaSoft 4.0
and VisionX 4.0 are medical image management systems intended to acquire, store, display,
and support review of dental radiographs and related images by qualified dental professionals.
Both devices share the same overall intended use and incorporate AI-based functions limited
to assessing image quality.
The predicate device includes an AI-driven in-line image plate quality check to monitor plate
degradation and recommends replacement, while the subject device provides a broader set of
image capture quality indicators (e.g., cone cut, overlapping contacts, inadequate coverage,
foreshortening, elongation, and intraoperative tools). This difference represents an expansion
of quality check categories assessed but does not change the fundamental intended use, as
neither device performs diagnosis or interpretation.Overall, the differences do not raise new questions of safety and effectiveness, as both AI
features are restricted to image quality assessment.
10. Technological Characteristics Comparison
Criteria Subject Device Primary Predicate Comparison
Overjet Iris Intelligent Imaging VistaSoft 4.0 and VisionX 4.0
System Durr Dental SE
Overjet, Inc. (K250947)
Classification 21 CFR 892.2050, Medical Image 21 CFR 892.2050, Medical Image Same
Regulation Management and Processing Management and Processing
System System
Intended Overjet Iris Intelligent Imaging VistaSoft 4.0 and VisionX 4.0 Both devices share
Use/Indicatio System is a web-based dental image imaging software is an image the same overall
ns for Use management software (Picture management system that allows intended use and
Archiving and Communication dentists to acquire, display, edit, incorporate AI-based
System, PACS). The system enables view, store, print, and distribute functions limited to
acquisition, cloud-based storage, medical images. VisionX 4.0 / assessing image
archival, display, and distribution of VistaSoft 4.0 runs on user provided quality.
digital dental images. Images can be PC compatible computers and
acquired from dental image utilize previously cleared digital
acquisition devices (intraoral sensors image capture devices for image
or extraoral panoramic machines) acquisition.
and/or consumer imaging devices The software must only be used by
such as color digital cameras. authorized healthcare professionals
in dental areas for the following
In addition, the system provides tasks:
automated identification and - Filter optimization of the display of
reporting of image capture quality 2D and 3D images for improved
issues, including the presence of diagnosis
intraoperative tools within the field of - Acquisition, storage,
view, cone cut, overlapping management, display, analysis,
interproximal contacts, inadequate editing and supporting diagnosis of
crestal bone coverage, inadequate digital/digitised 2D and 3D images
apical coverage, inadequate coronal and videos
coverage, foreshortening, and - Forwarding of images and
elongation. These image quality additional data to external software
indicators are intended to assist (third-party software)
clinicians in evaluating the adequacy The software is not intended for
of intraoral radiographs but are not a mammography use.
substitute for professional clinical
judgment.
The device is intended to provide
images for review and diagnostic use
by trained dental professionals.
Host Web-application PC-based application The subject device
Platform uses web-application
whereas the predicate
uses PC-based
application.Criteria Subject Device Primary Predicate Comparison
Overjet Iris Intelligent Imaging VistaSoft 4.0 and VisionX 4.0
System Durr Dental SE
Overjet, Inc. (K250947)
Image Type 2D dental images 2D and 3D dental images The subject device is
focused exclusively
on 2D dental images
while the predicate
device uses 2D and
3D images.
Functions ● Browsing images by date and/or ● Imaging application including a Both the subject and
and source viewer and job interface predicate device
Capabilities ● Image viewer ● Image viewer share substantially
● Uploading an Image file from the ● Acquiring images from video equivalent core
user’s computer cameras, digital X-ray cameras, features for acquiring,
● Acquiring an Image from a Web image plate scanners, extraoral viewing, storing, and
camera, TWAIN device and X-ray devices, intraoral scanners managing dental
standard dental imaging devices and TWAIN compatible image images, with similar
(via integration with sources. basic image
DICOM-compatible imaging ● Saving and store images manipulation tools.
application) ● Automatic rotation (AI) The predicate
● Saving an Image to the local ● Invert Image provides AI-based
computer (via offline mode) ● Automatic nerve canal tracing in-line image plate
● Rotate Image (increments of 90 (AI) quality checks and
degrees) ● In-line automatic image plate additional diagnostic
● Flip Image Horizontally or quality checks (AI) support modules while
Vertically ● Improved panoramic curve the subject device
● Report image quality issues for detection (AI) instead provides
intraoral radiographs (AI) ● VistaSoft/VisionX Connect to AI-based reporting of
integrate Dürr Dental and Air image capture quality
Techniques devices into 3rd issues.
party software The differences in
scope of the features
do not introduce new
questions of safety or
effectiveness.
The technological characteristics of the subject device are nearly identical to those of the
predicate devices, with only minor feature differences. The subject device, Overjet Iris
Intelligent Imaging System, and the predicate VistaSoft 4.0 and VisionX 4.0 share equivalent
core features for acquiring, viewing, storing, and managing dental images, with similar basic
image manipulation tools.
Both devices incorporate AI/ML algorithms limited to image quality functions. The predicate
provides AI-based in-line image plate quality checks and additional diagnostic support
modules (e.g., nerve canal tracing, panoramic curve detection), while the subject device
instead provides AI-based reporting of image capture quality issues (e.g., cone cut,
inadequate coverage, foreshortening, elongation etc.).
These differences do not raise new questions of safety or effectiveness, as both AI
functionalities are restricted to image quality and not diagnosis or interpretation.11. Performance Testing
Overjet conducted comprehensive nonclinical performance testing to support a determination
of substantial equivalence for Overjet Iris Intelligent Imaging System. This included software
verification and validation (V&V) testing in accordance with the FDA guidance ‘Content of
Premarket Submissions for Device Software Functions’ (June 2023), and the FDA-recognized
consensus standard IEC 62304:2006+A1:2015 for software lifecycle processes.
Cybersecurity was evaluated in accordance with the FDA Guidance ‘Cybersecurity in Medical
Devices: Quality System Considerations and Content of Premarket Submissions’ (June
2025). Testing encompassed unit-level validation, integration testing, system verification, and
user acceptance testing, all of which confirmed that the software performs as intended under
expected use conditions.
Standalone performance of the Overjet Iris Intelligent Imaging System device was evaluated
for 1888 bitewing (955) and periapical (933) images. The dataset was split with roughly 30-70
images with and without image quality issues. Images were obtained from male and female
patients, from a range of distinctly different geographic regions and age groups. Images were
independently reviewed and annotated by three dentists. The results were compared to the
consensus reference standard established by the three dentists.
The following key performance metrics were evaluated:
● Image-level standalone specificity
● Image-level standalone sensitivity
● Image level AUC (Area Under the ROC Curve)
The results met or exceeded all pre-specified performance goals. For instance, the
observed image-level specificity was 99.0% with 95% CIs (98.2%, 99.6%) for Bitewing (BW)
images and 98.1% with 95% CIs (96.9%, 99%) for Periapical (PA) images. The image-level
sensitivity was 90.8% with 95% CIs (87.1%, 94.2%) for BW images and 93.9% with 95% CIs
(91.3%, 96.1%) for PA images surpassing the required threshold for this endpoint. These
results demonstrate that Overjet Iris Intelligent Imaging System performs safely and
effectively within its intended use and is substantially equivalent to the identified predicate
device.
12. Conclusion
The Overjet Iris Intelligent Imaging System is substantially equivalent to the predicate device
VistaSoft 4.0 and VistaX 4.0. The differences do not raise any concerns about the safety or
efficacy of the device.