March 20, 2026
GE Medical Systems, LLC
℅ Laura Turner
Regulatory Affairs Manager
3000 N. Grandview Blvd.
WAUKESHA, WI 53188
Re: K253520
Trade/Device Name: Photonova Spectra, Photonova Spectra Select
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.1750
Regulation Name: Computed Tomography X-Ray System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: JAK
Dated: February 19, 2026
Received: February 19, 2026
Dear Laura Turner:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK253520 - Laura Turner Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K253520 - Laura Turner Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Lu Jiang
Lu Jiang, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Diagnostic X-Ray Systems Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K253520
Device Name
Photonova Spectra, Photonova Spectra Select
Indications for Use (Describe)
The Photonova Spectra, Photonova Spectra Select system is a silicon-based spectral photon counting detector X-ray
Computed Tomography scanner.
The system is intended to produce cross-sectional images of the body by computer reconstruction of x-ray transmission
projection data from the same axial plane taken at different angles.
The system acquires multi-energy data in every scan and natively generates high resolution monochromatic images and
material density maps to facilitate visualizing and analyzing information about anatomical and pathological structures.
The system is indicated for head, whole body, cardiac, and vascular CT applications. The system is indicated for patients
of all ages. The images can be post-processed to produce additional imaging planes or analysis results.
The system is indicated for lung cancer screening for patients meeting the established inclusion criteria of
programs/protocols that have been published by either a governmental body or professional medical society.*
* Please refer to clinical literature, including the results of the National Lung Screening Trial (N Engl J Med
2011;365:395-409) and subsequent literature, for further information.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFGE HealthCare
510(k) Premarket Notification Submission – Photonova Spectra
510(k) SUMMARY
This 510(k) summary of Safety and Effectiveness information is submitted in accordance with the
requirement of 21 CFR Part 807.87(h):
Date: November 12, 2025
Submitter: GE Medical Systems, LLC
3000 N. Grandview Blvd.
Waukesha, Wisconsin 53188
Primary Contact: Laura Turner
Regulatory Affairs Manager
Phone: 1 (262) 200-1044
Email: Laura.Turner@gehealthcare.com
Secondary Contacts: John Jaeckle
Chief Regulatory Affairs Strategist
Phone: 1 (262) 424-9547
Email: John.Jaeckle@gehealthcare.com
Veronica Aguayo
Regulatory Affairs Leader
Phone: 1 (414) 217-4331
Email: Veronica.Aguayo@gehealthcare.com
Device Trade Name: Photonova Spectra, Photonova Spectra Select
Device Classification Class II
Regulation Number/ Product Code: 21 CFR 892.1750 Computed tomography x-ray system / JAK
Predicate Device Information
Device Name: Revolution Apex
Manufacturer: GE Medical Systems, LLC
510(k) Number: K213715, Cleared on December 17, 2021
Regulation Number/ Product Code: 21 CFR 892.1750 Computed tomography x-ray system / JAK
Reference Device Information
Device Name: Deep Learning Image Reconstruction for Gemstone Spectral
Imaging (DLIR-GSI)
Manufacturer: GE Medical Systems, LLC
1 of 6GE HealthCare
510(k) Premarket Notification Submission – Photonova Spectra
510(k) Number: K201745
Regulation Number/ Product Code: 21 CFR 892.1750 Computed tomography x-ray system / JAK
Device Name: Deep Learning Image Reconstruction (DLIR) (TrueFidelity)
Manufacturer: GE Medical Systems, LLC
510(k) Number: K213999
Regulation Number/ Product Code: 21 CFR 892.1750 Computed tomography x-ray system / JAK
Device Description
Photonova Spectra is the next iteration of the predicate, the Revolution Apex platform (K213715),
introducing a new Deep Silicon (dSi) photon counting detector for CT imaging. Photonova Spectra aims to
realize an improvement in both spatial resolution and spectral imaging performance relative to traditional
Energy Integrating Detector (EID) systems for diagnostic CT. With photon-counting detectors that can
better discriminate energies, spectral CT imaging can natively provide valuable information about tissue
composition and material density without the need for active filtration or kVp modulation by performing
material decomposition directly from native multi-energy data.
The Photonova Spectra system is an ultra-premium multi-slice CT scanning system comprised of a gantry,
a detector, an x-ray tube, a power distribution unit (PDU), a table, a system cabinet, a scanner desktop
computer and user interface, and associated accessories. It is designed as a volumetric CT scanner to
provide advanced imaging capability for a range of clinical applications.
Compared to the predicate Revolution Apex, the key differences of the Photonova Spectra System consist
of a Deep Silicon (dSi) X-ray detector capable of directly converting X-ray photons to electrical signals,
advanced detector data acquisition hardware for managing and processing of large volumes of data,
advanced computer hardware and an enhanced image chain for generating High Definition (HD) Spectral
and Ultra High Definition (UHD) image series.
The Photonova Spectra image chain is developed to calibrate, pre-process, reconstruct, and post-process
images for use in medical imaging applications. Customized for photon counting detection physics and
capability, Photonova Spectra does not require user to choose between single kV and dual energy
acquisition modes. With Photonova Spectra, all acquisitions are spectral with 8 energy bins over the full
high-resolution detector, and the data is stored real-time on the rotating side as the acquisition completes
over the full scan sequence.
The system will be offered with either an 80 mm dSi detector and 40 mm dSi detector model
configurations, commercialized as Photonova Spectra and Photonova Spectra Select, respectively. The
detector size is the key differentiator, but all core technology and functionality are identical.
Intended Use
The system is intended for head, whole body, cardiac and vascular X-ray Computed Tomography
applications.
2 of 6GE HealthCare
510(k) Premarket Notification Submission – Photonova Spectra
Indications for Use
The Photonova Spectra, Photonova Spectra Select system is a Silicon-based Spectral Photon Counting
Detector X-ray Computed Tomography Scanner.
The system is intended to produce cross-sectional images of the body by computer reconstruction of x-
ray transmission projection data from the same axial plane taken at different angles.
The system acquires multi-energy data in every scan and natively generates high resolution
monochromatic images and material density maps to facilitate visualizing and analyzing information
about anatomical and pathological structures.
The system is indicated for head, whole body, cardiac, and vascular CT applications. The system is
indicated for patients of all ages. The generated images can be post-processed to produce additional
imaging planes or analysis results.
The system is indicated for lung cancer screening for patients meeting the established inclusion criteria of
programs/protocols that have been published by either a governmental body or professional medical
society. *
* Please refer to clinical literature, including the results of the National Lung Screening Trial (N Engl J Med
2011;365:395-409) and subsequent literature, for further information.
Technological Characteristics
Photonova Spectra has identical intended use to the predicate, Revolution Apex, and did not alter use
environment, or patient population. While Photonova Spectra shares several primary hardware
components with the predicate, the proposed device introduces a new photon counting detector utilizing
a silicon semiconductor material and an enhancement to the Quantix X-ray tube control software to
produce an additional extra small focal spot to pair with the high-resolution detector geometry.
Photonova Spectra also includes a next generation deep learning reconstruction commercially known as
TrueFidelity DL for PCCT using a multi-layer convolution neural network (CNN) that is designed to produce
low noise images. The proposed TrueFidelity DL for PCCT is intended for routine clinical use and based on
the same framework and training methodology as the reference devices (DLIR and DLIR-GSI) that are
utilized by the Revolution Apex. The proposed TrueFidelity DL for PCCT is implemented as the system’s
default native reconstruction with an inherent baseline level of denoising, while also offering
user-selectable parameters (Low, Medium, High) to modulate denoising strength according to user
preference.
Specification Predicate Device Proposed Device
Revolution Apex (K213715) Photonova Spectra
Contraindications None Same
Patient Population Patients of all ages Same
Gantry • 80 cm patient bore • 80 cm patient bore
• Rotation Speeds: 0.23, 0.28, 0.35, • Rotation Speeds: 0.23, 0.28, 0.35,
0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, and 1.0 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0 & 2.0
seconds per rotation seconds per rotation
Detector • Up to 160 mm in Z-direction with • Up to 80 mm in Z-direction with up
up to 50cm Scan field of view to 50 cm scan field of view
3 of 6GE HealthCare
510(k) Premarket Notification Submission – Photonova Spectra
Specification Predicate Device Proposed Device
Revolution Apex (K213715) Photonova Spectra
• 256 rows, 0.625 mm pixel pitch (40 mm option)
• Energy Integrating • 192 rows, 0.2 mm pixel pitch in XY
• Gemstone Scintillator Material and 0.4 mm pixel pitch in Z
• Detector Thermal System (DTS) • Photon Counting with 8 discrete
with high RPM fans energy bins
• Silicon Semiconductor Material
• Detector Thermal System (DTS) with
higher RPM fans
X-Ray Tube Quantix X-Ray Tube Quantix X-Ray Tube
• 70, 80, 100, 120, 140 kVp • 120 kVp
• Focal Spot sizes: Extra Large, • Focal Spot sizes: Extra Large, Large,
Large, Small Small, Extra Small
Collimator Wolverine 2 Collimator Badger Collimator
• Diagnostic Bowties: Small, • Diagnostic Bowties: Small, Large
Medium, Large • Scout: SmartScout Filter
• Scout: SmartScout Filter • Calibration: Tungsten Filter
• Calibration: No dedicated filter.
Patient Table • Tables with scannable range of Same
2000 mm & 1700mm
• Load capacity 675 lbs
Scan Modes • Scout • Scout
• Axial • Axial
• Helical • Helical
• Cine • Cardiac
• Cardiac • Gated
• Gated
• High Definition
• Fluoro (axial)
• GSI
• SmartScout
• ECG-Less cardiac (K233750)
Image 512 x 512 Same
Reconstruction 1024 x 1024
Matrix
Reconstruction FBP FBP with TrueFidelity DL for PCCT
Algorithms ASiR-V (K13640)
DLIR (K213999)
GSI-DLIR (K201745)
4 of 6GE HealthCare
510(k) Premarket Notification Submission – Photonova Spectra
Determination of Substantial Equivalence
Photonova Spectra has completed testing and in compliance with AAMI/ANSI ES 60601-1 and IEC60601-
1 Ed. 3.2 and its associated collateral and particular standards, 21 CFR Subchapter J, and NEMA standards
XR 25, and XR 28. Engineering design verification, validation and bench testing are in support of substantial
equivalence between the subject device and predicate device. The following quality assurance measures
were applied to the development of the system:
• Requirement Definition
• Risk Analysis and Control
• Technical Design Reviews
• Formal Design Reviews
• Software Development Lifecycle
• Code Review
• Software Unit Implementation
• Software Integrations and Integration Testing
• System Testing
• Safety Testing (Verification)
• Image Performance Testing (Verification)
• Simulating Use Testing (Validation)
• Software Release
The testing and results did not raise different questions of safety and effectiveness than associated with
predicate device. We consider the Photonova Spectra is substantially equivalent to the predicate device,
Revolution Apex.
Summary of Non-Clinical Testing
Verification and validation testing have been done as required by design control procedures under GE
Healthcare’s quality system. This includes risk management, software verification and validation testing
as well as image quality and dose performance evaluation using well established metrics and methods.
Additionally, substantial equivalence of image quality was demonstrated for the system’s DL baseline
level of denoising with FBP-based reconstruction. The testing includes evaluation of a comprehensive
set of image quality metrics and includes acquisitions at varying dose levels and phantom sizes. This
aims to demonstrate equivalency in images by assessing that the CT number, water accuracy, mean CT
number over a range of spectral tasks, in-plane resolution, cross-plane resolution and noise texture (as
measured by the noise power spectrum) are substantially equivalent.
IQ and dose evaluation include:
• Test using standard IQ, QA, ACR and anthropomorphic pediatric phantoms for standard
conditions as well as challenging conditions such as with phantoms simulating large patients.
• Low contrast detectability (LCD) studies were conducted incorporating a model observer
approach.
• Elements of performance testing in accordance with IEC 61223-3-5 ed 2.
5 of 6GE HealthCare
510(k) Premarket Notification Submission – Photonova Spectra
Summary of Clinical Testing
The clinical testing was carried out in the form of a reader study of sample clinical covering a wide range
of clinical scenarios, including Neuro, Body, and Cardiac/Chest. Images were evaluated by US board-
certified Radiologists.
Additionally, clinical testing included an evaluation by US board certified Radiologists to compare the
various levels of user-prescribed denoising to support the conclusion that the system-offered DL
reconstruction preserves diagnostic interpretability and overall performance. Specifically, a comparative
clinical evaluation of challenging cases from the above-mentioned reader study demonstrated that the
system’s DL baseline level of denoising was substantially equivalent to FBP-based reconstruction, with no
introduced or removed anatomical information. No reader identified any added, removed, or reduced
diagnostic information in any DLIR setting, and all pathologies were consistently visualized across all DL
reconstructions.
The result of this reader study validated that Photonova Spectra provides diagnostic utility and is safe and
effective for its intended use.
Substantial Equivalence
GE HealthCare believes that Photonova Spectra is safe and effective and performs in a substantially
equivalent manner to the unmodified predicate device Revolution Apex (K213715).
GEHC’s quality system’s design, verification, and risk management processes did not identify any new
questions of safety or effectiveness, hazards, unexpected results, or adverse effects stemming from the
changes to the predicate.
6 of 6