April 7, 2026
Anumana, Inc.
Taylor Gold West
Director, Regulatory Affairs
One Main St., Suite 400
East Arcade, 4th Floor
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142
Re: K253801
Trade/Device Name: ECG-AI Cardiac Amyloidosis (CA) 12-Lead Algorithm
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 870.2380
Regulation Name: Cardiovascular Machine Learning-Based Notification Software.
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: SHP
Dated: November 28, 2025
Received: November 28, 2025
Dear Taylor Gold West:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK253801 - Taylor Gold West Page 2
FDA's substantial equivalence determination also included the review and clearance of your Predetermined
Change Control Plan (PCCP). Under section 515C(b)(1) of the Act, a new premarket notification is not
required for a change to a device cleared under section 510(k) of the Act, if such change is consistent with an
established PCCP granted pursuant to section 515C(b)(2) of the Act. Under 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3), a new
premarket notification is required if there is a major change or modification in the intended use of a device,
or if there is a change or modification in a device that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of
the device, e.g., a significant change or modification in design, material, chemical composition, energy
source, or manufacturing process. Accordingly, if deviations from the established PCCP result in a major
change or modification in the intended use of the device, or result in a change or modification in the device
that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, then a new premarket notification
would be required consistent with section 515C(b)(1) of the Act and 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3). Failure to submit
such a premarket submission would constitute adulteration and misbranding under sections 501(f)(1)(B) and
502(o) of the Act, respectively.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on theseK253801 - Taylor Gold West Page 3
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
STEPHEN C. BROWNING -S
LCDR Stephen Browning
Assistant Director
Division of Cardiac Electrophysiology,
Diagnostics, and Monitoring Devices
Office of Cardiovascular Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K253801
Device Name
ECG-AI Cardiac Amyloidosis (CA) 12-Lead Algorithm
Indications for Use (Describe)
The ECG-AI Cardiac Amyloidosis 12-Lead Algorithm is software as a medical device intended to aid in earlier detection
of Cardiac Amyloidosis in adults being evaluated for signs or symptoms consistent with cardiac amyloidosis. This
population includes patients that have at least one condition commonly associated with cardiac amyloidosis, such as:
unexplained heart failure, nephrotic syndrome, peripheral neuropathy, arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
The ECG-AI Cardiac Amyloidosis 12-Lead Algorithm is not intended to be a stand-alone diagnostic device for cardiac
amyloidosis nor to replace current clinical practice guidelines. A positive result may suggest the need for further clinical
evaluation in order to establish a diagnosis of Cardiac Amyloidosis. Additionally, if the patient is at high risk for the
cardiac condition, a negative result should not rule out additional clinical evaluation. The ECG-AI Cardiac Amyloidosis
12-Lead algorithm should be applied jointly with clinician judgment.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFeSTAR Traditional 510(k) Submission – ECG-AI CA 12-Lead Algorithm
K253801 - 510(k) Summary
510(k) Summary
ECG-AI Cardiac Amyloidosis 12-Lead Algorithm
Applicant Name: Anumana, Inc.
One Main Street, Suite 400
East Arcade 4th Floor
Cambridge, MA 02142
Submitter: Vyaas Shankar
Senior Regulatory Specialist
Anumana, Inc.
vyaas.shankar@anumana.ai
Primary Contact: Taylor Gold West, MBA, RAC
Director, Regulatory Affairs
Anumana, Inc.
tgoldwest@anumana.ai
Date Summary Prepared: April 7, 2026
Trade/Device Name: ECG-AI Cardiac Amyloidosis (CA) 12-Lead Algorithm
Classification Panel: Cardiology
Regulation Number: 21 CFR § 870.2380
Regulation Name: Cardiovascular machine learning-based notification software
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: SHP
Predicate Device(s):
Device Name: ECG-AI Low Ejection Fraction 12-Lead algorithm
Manufacturer: Anumana, Inc.
Application Number: K250652
Device Description
The ECG-AI CA 12-Lead algorithm is software as a medical device (SaMD) which interprets 12-lead ECG
voltage time series data using an artificial intelligence-based algorithm. The device analyzes 10 seconds
or longer duration of a single 12-lead ECG acquisition, and within seconds detects the presence of
cardiac amyloidosis in the intended patient population.
The ECG-AI CA 12-Lead algorithm is integrated into existing clinical workflows to support overall
assessment and to enable physicians to determine whether further workup or referral to a cardiac
amyloidosis specialist is clinically indicated. The ECG-AI CA 12-Lead algorithm is intended to be used by
clinicians that diagnose and/or treat patients with signs, symptoms, or co-morbidities, associated with
cardiac amyloidosis.
Page 1 of 8eSTAR Traditional 510(k) Submission – ECG-AI CA 12-Lead Algorithm
K253801 - 510(k) Summary
The software module can be integrated into a client application to be accessed by clinicians and results
viewed through an Electronic Medical Record (EMR) system or an ECG Management System (EMS)
accessed via a PC, mobile device, or another medical device. In each case, the physician imports 12-lead
ECG data in digital format. The tool analyzes the 10 seconds or longer duration of voltage data collected
during a standard 12-lead ECG and outputs a binary result of the likelihood of cardiac amyloidosis as an
Application Programming Interface (API) result.
Indications for Use
The ECG-AI Cardiac Amyloidosis 12-Lead algorithm is software as a medical device intended to aid in
earlier detection of Cardiac Amyloidosis in adults being evaluated for signs or symptoms consistent with
cardiac amyloidosis. This population includes patients that have at least one condition commonly
associated with cardiac amyloidosis, such as: unexplained heart failure, nephrotic syndrome, peripheral
neuropathy, arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
The ECG-AI Cardiac Amyloidosis 12-Lead algorithm is not intended to be a stand-alone diagnostic device
for cardiac amyloidosis nor to replace current clinical practice guidelines. A positive result may suggest
the need for further clinical evaluation in order to establish a diagnosis of Cardiac Amyloidosis.
Additionally, if the patient is at high risk for the cardiac condition, a negative result should not rule out
additional clinical evaluation. The ECG-AI Cardiac Amyloidosis 12-Lead algorithm should be applied
jointly with clinician judgment.
Technological Characteristics
The ECG-AI CA 12-Lead algorithm is provided as a software module packaged in a Docker container to
facilitate installation. Technical installation details including access to docker hub, docker hub path,
software upgrades, and associated access rights can be found in the Installation Manual - ECG-AI Cardiac
Amyloidosis 12-Lead algorithm. The ECG-AI CA 12-Lead algorithm does not provide a graphical user
interface (GUI) of its own. It is integrated with other medical systems such as Electronic Medical Record
(EMR) systems or ECG Management Systems (EMS). The third-party integrating software will furnish a
12-lead ECG digital waveform as input to ECG-AI CA 12-Lead algorithm and record the output from the
device for display or for printing in an offline report.
Predetermined Change Control Plan
This device has been cleared by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) with a Predetermined
Change Control Plan (PCCP). As part of this authorization, the device software may be updated
periodically to enhance performance, including for higher sensitivity and/or specificity.
The first modification, related to device performance improvement, will be validated through a multi-
center retrospective clinical study that uses a combination of new and existing data. This approach
involves supplementing the validation dataset with at least 20% new data for each iteration to ensure it
remains current and representative. To be implemented, a modified version must demonstrate
improved performance by meeting pre-specified acceptance criteria. These criteria require the new
version’s sensitivity and specificity point estimates and lower bound of the 95% confidence interval to
be greater than those of the previous version.
The second modification, which pertains to the expansion of ECG device compatibility, will be validated
through a retrospective clinical study utilizing newly acquired clinical data from ECG devices targeted for
inclusion under the expanded compatibility claim. To be implemented, the modified version must
Page 2 of 8eSTAR Traditional 510(k) Submission – ECG-AI CA 12-Lead Algorithm
K253801 - 510(k) Summary
demonstrate that performance on ECGs obtained from the target cardiographs exceeds the minimum
performance observed on accepted cardiographs from the original clinical validation study, plus any
performance gain resulting from the implementation of the first modification. These criteria require the
new version’s sensitivity point estimate and lower bound of the 95% confidence interval to be greater
than the minimum threshold, plus any performance gain resulting from implementation of the first
modification, and specificity lower bound of the 95% confidence interval to be greater than the
minimum threshold, plus any performance gain resulting from implementation of the first modification.
Users will be informed of each applicable update through revised labeling, release notes, or other
appropriate communication channels. It is important to review updated instructions and performance
summaries accompanying each software version to ensure continued proper use of the device.
Summary of Non-Clinical Performance Data
The performance characteristics for the ECG-AI CA 12-Lead Algorithm have been evaluated with the
following non-clinical testing: software verification and validation (per IEC 62304), cybersecurity,
labeling verification and validation, and human factors.
Summary of Clinical Performance Data
The performance characteristics for the ECG-AI CA 12-Lead Algorithm have been clinically validated for
detection of cardiac amyloidosis in the intended patient population, with a sensitivity and specificity
greater than the study’s predetermined acceptance criteria.
Table 1: Performance Characteristics
Performance Characteristic Value
Sensitivity 78.9 %
Specificity 91.2 %
Algorithm Training
The ECG-AI CA 12 Lead Algorithm was developed by training a Neural Network (NN), a type of artificial
intelligence, to learn patterns specific to CA directly from standard 12-lead ECGs. The algorithm was
trained by providing the NN with ECGs from two distinct groups of patients, CA patients (cases) and
matched non-CA patients (controls).
To identify cases, a database from a large health system with CA expertise was used. The database was
rigorously examined to identify patients with evidence of CA reported in natural language in clinical
notes, in imaging results, in pathology results, or in structured diagnoses codes. Physicians reviewed all
possible CA cases and identified a final case cohort of 4,251 patients with a confirmed diagnosis of CA
and supporting evidence of the diagnosis in their clinical records. The 4,251 patients contributed a total
of 4,251 ECGs (one per patient) for model training.
Controls were selected by identifying patients with a complete Transthoracic Echocardiogram (TTE) and
an ECG within ± 180 days of the TTE. Patients with any evidence of cardiac amyloidosis or amyloidosis in
other organs were then excluded. Control candidates were then propensity matched to cases based on
Page 3 of 8eSTAR Traditional 510(k) Submission – ECG-AI CA 12-Lead Algorithm
K253801 - 510(k) Summary
age at the time of ECG acquisition, biological sex, race, and the year of the ECG acquisition. A final group
of 45,730 control patients were identified, which contributed a total of 45,730 ECGs (one per patient)
for model training. The ECGs from these 4,251 CA patients and 45,730 control patients were then used
to train the NN to distinguish between the two groups.
Summary of Clinical Validation
Study Design
The performance of the Anumana ECG-AI CA 12-Lead algorithm was validated in a retrospective study of
25,525 patient records from four health systems in the United States. The study population included
adults aged 18 years and older with both an ECG and TTE obtained within +/- 180 days of each other.
The study was designed to evaluate the device’s ability to identify cardiac amyloidosis using AI-based
analysis of a standard 12-lead ECG.
CA cases were defined as patients with a confirmed diagnosis of cardiac amyloidosis. For these
individuals, the ECG-TTE pair closest to the date of diagnosis was selected. Controls were selected from
patients with medical conditions associated with CA but without a CA diagnosis. Records with a
diagnosis of non-cardiac forms of amyloid were excluded.
Summary of Study Results
In total, 25,525 patient records were used for the primary analysis. The study sample was representative
of the US adult population and included 52.0% male and 48.0% female participants. The racial and
ethnic distribution was 72.7% White, 7.5% Hispanic, 11.3% Black/African American, 0.7% American
Indian or Alaska Native, 1.9% Asian, and 13.4% Other/Multiracial. Approximately 63.0% of participants
were aged 60 years or older.
The study was designed with a joint primary performance endpoint assessing sensitivity and specificity,
with prespecified acceptance criteria of sensitivity ≥75% and specificity ≥80%. The device met these
acceptance criteria.
Subgroup Analyses
Subgroup assessments of diagnostic performance were conducted to determine if there was
heterogeneity in device performance across clinical sites, demographics, clinical characteristics,
conduction disorders, ECG manufacturers, and ECG devices. To assess for heterogeneity, Breslow-Day
tests for the strata were conducted on the odds ratio for condition presence given a positive ECG-
AI result. The results are summarized in Table 2 below.
Table 2: Subgroup Analyses
Subgroup Analysis Result of Test for Heterogeneity
Diagnostic performance varied across sites (p<0.01), with the lowest diagnostic
Clinical Site performance observed for UTSW, which had a high proportion of hereditary
ATTR, and the highest observed for VUMC.
Page 4 of 8eSTAR Traditional 510(k) Submission – ECG-AI CA 12-Lead Algorithm
K253801 - 510(k) Summary
Subgroup Analysis Result of Test for Heterogeneity
Diagnostic performance differed by cardiac amyloidosis subtype (p<0.01), with
Cardiac Amyloidosis sensitivity highest for AL amyloidosis (87.6%) and lowest for unknown/unclear
Subtypes subtype (33.3%; small n), and intermediate for hereditary ATTR (69.4%), wild-
type ATTR (73.2%), and ATTR not otherwise specified (84.6%).
Biological Sex No statistically significant heterogeneity observed (p>0.01)
Diagnostic performance varied across racial groups (p<0.01), with the lowest
diagnostic performance observed for Black participants (sensitivity 76%,
Race/Ethnicity
specificity 88.0%) and the highest observed for White participants (sensitivity
80.6%, specificity 91.6%).
Diagnostic performance varied across age groups (p<0.01), with the lowest
Age Group at Index
diagnostic performance observed for the 70+ group (sensitivity 76%, specificity
Visit
91.3%) and the highest observed for the 50–59 group (sensitivity 85.6%,
specificity 88.0%).
Diagnostic performance varied across BMI categories (p<0.01), with the lowest
diagnostic performance observed for the 35+ group (sensitivity 66.2%,
Body Mass Index
specificity 92.5%) and the highest observed for the 30–34 group (sensitivity
84.4%, specificity 92.4%).
Diagnostic performance varied across ECG manufacturer (p<0.01), with the
lowest diagnostic performance observed for GE Healthcare (sensitivity 78.1%,
ECG Manufacturer specificity 80.3%) and the highest observed for Philips Medical Products
(sensitivity 80.6%, specificity 92.9%), though this may be influenced by study
site.
ECG Device Model No statistically significant heterogeneity observed (p>0.01).
Diagnostic performance was generally consistent across comorbidity subgroups.
There was no statistically significant heterogeneity for aortic stenosis,
glomerular disorders, or non-specific symptoms/signs (p>0.01), with similar
performance in patients with and without these conditions. In contrast,
Comorbidities
diagnostic performance varied by cardiac arrhythmias, heart failure, and
neuropathies, with lower performance observed in patients with these
comorbidities and higher performance in those without; statistically significant
heterogeneity was observed for each of these subgroups (p≤0.01).
Diagnostic performance was broadly similar when stratified by conduction
disorders identified from ECG XML diagnoses, and no statistically significant
heterogeneity was observed between patients with and without a specified
conduction disorder on ECG (p>0.01). In contrast, when conduction disorders
Conduction Disorders
were defined using ICD codes, diagnostic performance was lower in patients
with an ICD code for a conduction disorder and higher in those without, and
statistically significant heterogeneity was observed across these groups
(p<0.01).
Page 5 of 8eSTAR Traditional 510(k) Submission – ECG-AI CA 12-Lead Algorithm
K253801 - 510(k) Summary
Substantial Equivalence
The following table captures the substantial equivalence comparison between the subject and predicate device, including administrative
information, patient population, use environment, and key technological features.
Table 5: Substantial Equivalence Comparison of Subject Device to the Predicate
Subject Device Predicate Discussion
Manufacturer Anumana, Inc. Anumana, Inc.
Product Name ECG-AI CA 12-Lead algorithm ECG-AI LEF 12-Lead algorithm
Application No. K253801 K250652
Product Code SHP QYE Equivalent. Both product codes are
assigned to the Regulation number 21 CFR
870.2380.
Regulation No. 21 CFR 870.2380 21 CFR 870.2380 Identical.
Regulation Name Cardiovascular machine learning- Cardiovascular machine learning- Identical.
based notification software based notification software
Intended Use/ The ECG-AI Cardiac Amyloidosis 12- The ECG-AI LEF 12-Lead algorithm is Equivalent. The subject device’s intended
Indications for Lead Algorithm is software as a software intended to aid in earlier use is equivalent to the predicate in that
Use medical device intended to aid in detection of Left Ventricular Ejection both are intended to aid in earlier detection
earlier detection of Cardiac Fraction (LVEF) less than or equal to of a cardiovascular disease or condition. The
Amyloidosis in adults being evaluated 40% in adults at risk for heart only difference between the indications for
for signs or symptoms consistent with failure. This population includes, but is use is the disease condition, which was
cardiac amyloidosis. This population not limited to: clinically validated.
includes patients that have at least one • patients with cardiomyopathies
condition commonly associated with • patients who are post-myocardial
cardiac amyloidosis, such as: infarction
unexplained heart failure, nephrotic • patients with aortic stenosis
syndrome, peripheral neuropathy, • patients with chronic atrial
arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis. fibrillation
• patients receiving pharmaceutical
therapies that are cardiotoxic, and
Page 6 of 8eSTAR Traditional 510(k) Submission – ECG-AI CA 12-Lead Algorithm
K253801 - 510(k) Summary
Subject Device Predicate Discussion
Manufacturer Anumana, Inc. Anumana, Inc.
Product Name ECG-AI CA 12-Lead algorithm ECG-AI LEF 12-Lead algorithm
The ECG-AI Cardiac Amyloidosis 12- • postpartum women.
Lead Algorithm is not intended to be a
The ECG-AI LEF 12-Lead algorithm is
stand-alone diagnostic
not intended to be a stand-alone
device for cardiac amyloidosis nor to
diagnostic device for cardiac
replace current clinical practice
conditions, should not be used for
guidelines.
monitoring of patients, and should not
be used on ECGs with a paced rhythm.
A positive result may suggest the need
for further clinical evaluation in order
A positive result may suggest the need
to establish a diagnosis of Cardiac
for further clinical evaluation in order
Amyloidosis. Additionally, if the patient
to establish a diagnosis of Left
is at high risk for the cardiac condition,
Ventricular Ejection Fraction (LVEF)
a negative result should not rule out
less than or equal to 40%. Additionally,
additional clinical evaluation.
if the patient is at high risk for the
cardiac condition, a negative result
The ECG-AI Cardiac Amyloidosis 12-
should not rule out further non-
Lead algorithm should be applied
invasive evaluation.
jointly with clinician judgment.
The ECG-AI LEF 12-Lead algorithm
should be applied jointly with clinical
judgement.
Cardiac Amyloidosis Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction Equivalent. The predicate device is designed
(LVEF) less than or equal to 40% for a different disease but the subject
Diagnostic
device similarly helps to detect cardiac
Application
amyloidosis. Additional clinical validation
was conducted to support equivalence.
Page 7 of 8eSTAR Traditional 510(k) Submission – ECG-AI CA 12-Lead Algorithm
K253801 - 510(k) Summary
Subject Device Predicate Discussion
Manufacturer Anumana, Inc. Anumana, Inc.
Product Name ECG-AI CA 12-Lead algorithm ECG-AI LEF 12-Lead algorithm
Target Population Adults presenting with signs and Adults at risk for heart failure Equivalent. Both devices are intended to
symptoms consistent with cardiac target adults with cardiovascular symptoms
amyloidosis and/or risk factors.
Intended User Clinicians Clinicians Identical.
Principal of Machine learning-based algorithm Machine learning-based algorithm Identical.
Operation
Data Acquisition Acquires data from 12-Lead ECGs Acquires data from 12-Lead ECGs Identical.
Device Output Algorithm output is provided to third Algorithm output is provided to third Identical.
Format party software that displays a binary party software that displays a binary
result to clinicians. Output provided result to clinicians. Output provided
for each ECG is “Detected,” “Not for each ECG is “Detected,” “Not
Detected” or “Error”. Detected” or “Error”.
Cybersecurity Compliant with FDA Guidance on Compliant with FDA Guidance on Identical.
Cybersecurity Cybersecurity
Substantial Equivalence Conclusion
The subject device, Anumana ECG-AI CA 12-Lead algorithm, is substantially equivalent to the predicate device, Anumana ECG-AI LEF 12-Lead
algorithm (K250652). The devices have equivalent intended uses, principles of operation and technical characteristics. Where differences occur
between the subject device and the predicate, results of clinical performance and non-clinical verification and validation demonstrate that the
subject device is as safe and as effective as the predicate.
Page 8 of 8