Philips Medical Systems Nederland B.V.
Arbel Shezaf
Regulatory Affairs Manager
January 22, 2026
Veenpluis 6
Best, 5684 PC
Netherlands
Re: K253735
Trade/Device Name: AV Vascular
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical image management and processing system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH, LLZ
Dated: November 24, 2025
Received: November 24, 2025
Dear Arbel Shezaf:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.02
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK253735 - Arbel Shezaf Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A)for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. SeeK253735 - Arbel Shezaf Page 3
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Imaging Software Team
Assistant Director
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureK253735K253735
510(k) SUMMARY
Philips Medical Systems’ AV Vascular
Company’s Name and Philips Medical Systems Nederland B.V.
Address Veenpluis 6
5684 PC Best
The Netherlands
Contact Person Arbel Shezaf
Regulatory Affairs Manager
MATAM building 34, Haifa, 3100202, Israel
+972544487597
arbel.shezaf@philips.com
Date January 22, 2026
Device Trade name AV Vascular
Classification Name Automated radiological image processing software
Primary Product Code QIH
Secondary Product Code LLZ
Classification 21 CFR 892.2050
Primary Predicate Device Pie Medical Imaging’s 3mensio Structural Heart / 3mensio Vascular
(K153736)
Secondary Predicate Philips Medical Systems’ The Multimodality Advanced Vessel Analysis
Device (MM AVA) application (K203216)
Reference Device Philips Medical Systems’ Spectral CT Applications (K150665)
Device Description AV Vascular is a post-processing software application intended for
visualization, assessment, and quantification of vessels in computed
tomography angiography (CTA) and magnetic resonance angiography
(MRA) data with a unified workflow for both modalities.
AV Vascular includes the following functions:
• Advanced visualization: the application provides all relevant views
and interactions for CTA and MRA image review: 2D slides, MIP,
MPR, curved MPR (cMPR), stretched MPR (sMPR), path-aligned
views (cross-sectional and longitudinal MPRs), 3D volume
rendering (VR).
• Vessel segmentation: automatic bone removal and vessel
segmentation for head/neck and body CTA data, automatic vessel
centerline, lumen and outer wall extraction and labeling for the
main branches of the vascular anatomy in head/neck and body
CTA data, semi-automatic and manual creation of vessel
centerline and lumen for CTA and MRA data, interactive two-point
vessel centerline extraction and single-point centerline extension.
• Vessel inspection: enable inspection of an entire vessel using the
cMPR or sMPR views as well as inspection of a vessel locally using
vessel-aligned views (cross-sectional and longitudinal MPRs) by
selecting a position along a vessel of interest.
• Measurements: ability to create and save measurements of vessel
and lumen inner and outer diameters and area, as well as vessel
length and angle measurements.
• Measurements and tools that specifically support pre-procedural
planning: manual and automatic ring marker placement for specific
anatomical locations, length measurements of the longest and
shortest curve along the aortic lumen contour, angle
measurements of aortic branches in clock position style, saving
viewing angles in C-arm notation, and configurable templated
1measurements.
• Saving and export: saving and export of batch series and
customizable reports.
Indications for Use AV Vascular is indicated to assist users in the visualization, assessment
and quantification of vascular anatomy on CTA and/or MRA datasets, in
order to assess patients with suspected or diagnosed vascular pathology
and to assist with pre-procedural planning of endovascular interventions.
Verification and Validation Software verification and validation activities were performed to verify that
the software meets the product requirements.
Verification and Validation
Verification was performed according to the verification plan.
Product requirement specifications were tested and found to meet the
requirements.
Validation
Validation was performed according to the validation plan. User
requirement specifications were tested and found to meet the
requirements. The validation results provide evidence that the product
meets its intended use and user requirements.
Performance Data Performance testing was conducted for subclavian artery extraction on
body cases (model-based algorithm), aorto-iliac wall segmentation (AI-
based algorithm) and ring marker placement (model-based algorithm).
The datasets represent the targeted US patient population in terms of key
demographics, clinical and technical characteristics.
Subclavian Artery Centerline Extraction
CT angiography scans of the body were collected for testing. The
automatically extracted subclavian artery centerlines were compared with
a reference standard.
Ring Marker Placement
CT angiography scans of the body were collected for testing, with the
majority coming from patients with aortic or iliac aneurysms. Automatically
placed ring markers at the ostia of the renal and superior mesenteric
arteries were evaluated by expert vascular interventionalists for their
clinical acceptability without any adjustment.
Aorto-iliac Outer Wall Segmentation
To validate the performance of the aorto-iliac wall segmentation, body CT
angiography scans were collected from 80 patients.
The aorto-iliac outer wall contour automatically generated by the AI-based
algorithm in the subject device was compared with a reference standard in
terms of Dice similarity coefficient (DSC), mean surface distance (MSD),
and Hausdorff distance (HD). The measurement accuracy (minimum and
maximum diameter, D and D ) was also evaluated.
min max
• Testing Data, Demographics, & Independence from Training Data
The demographic information of the 80 patients included for
performance testing is:
Demographics Number of patients (percentage)
Geographics North America: 58 (72.5%)
Europe: 3 (3.75%)
Asia: 19 (23.75%)
None of these testing data were from the same
clinical sites which provided the training data.
Sex Male: 59 (73.75%)
Female: 21 (26.25%)
Age (years) 21-50: 2 (2.50%)
51-70: 31 (38.75%)
2>71: 45 (56.25%)
Not available: 2 (2.5%)
The performance testing data were collected retrospectively from 7
clinical sites in the US, 3 European hospitals, and one hospital in Asia.
All performance testing datasets were acquired from clinical sites
distinct from those which provided the algorithm training data, and the
algorithm developers had no access to the testing data, ensuring
complete independence between training and testing data. At least
80% of the included patients had thoracic and/or abdominal aortic
diseases and/or iliac artery diseases (e.g., thoracic/abdominal aortic
aneurysm, ectasia, dissection, and stenosis). At least 20% of patients
had been treated with stents. The composed testing data were
considered representative of the intended patient population in the US.
• Reference Standard (i.e., Truthing Process)
For each of the CT angiographic images, three US-board certified
radiologists (i.e., truthers) independently performed manual contouring
of the outer wall along the aorta and iliac arteries on cross-sectional
planes. The order of the cases was randomized for each truther to
reduce bias. After quality control, these three aortic and iliac arterial
outer wall contours were averaged as the reference standard contour.
• Performance & Acceptance Criteria
For primary performance metrics (2D and 3D DSC, MSD, and HD) the
performance statistics and acceptance criteria are:
Metrics Acceptance criteria Mean (98.75% confidence intervals)
DSC 3D DSC > 0.9 0.96 (0.96, 0.97)
2D DSC > 0.9 0.96 (0.95, 0.96)
MSD [mm] MSD < 1.0 mm 0.57 (0.485, 0.68)
HD [mm] HD < 3.0 mm 1.68 (1.23, 2.08)
For secondary performance metrics (D and D ), the performance
min max
statistics and acceptance criteria are:
Metrics Acceptance criteria Proportion (95% confidence intervals)
∆D >95% |∆D |<5 98.8% (98.3-99.2%)
min min
mm
∆D >95% |∆D |<5 98.5% (97.9-98.9%)
max max
mm
• Clinical Subgroups & Confounders
The performance of automatic aorto-iliac outer wall segmentation was
evaluated internally using independent testing CT angiographic data
acquired with multi-vendor scanners (GE Healthcare, Siemens, Philips,
Toshiba/Canon) from patients of which at least 80% had aortic and/or
iliac artery aneurysm, dissection, stents, calcification, stenosis, and/or
plaque. Primary performance metrics (DSC, MSD, and HD) were
analyzed across subgroups (defined by sex, age group, data source,
vessel, pathology, reconstruction method, slice thickness, and
manufacturer). The algorithm's performance was consistent across
multiple subgroups and comparable to the inter-truther variability. The
outer wall segmentation accuracy, however, might be reduced in cases
of giant aneurysms (diameter > 10 cm), which is rare in the intended
patient population.
3Therefore, the performance of all three algorithms is state of the art and on
par with the expectation.
Substantial Equivalence AV Vascular is as safe and effective as its predicate device. Both devices
have similar intended use and indications for use, technological
characteristics, and principles of operation. The minor technological
differences between AV Vascular and its predicate device raise no new
issues of safety or effectiveness.
Performance data demonstrate that Philips Medical Systems’ AV Vascular
is safe and effective. Thus, AV Vascular is substantially equivalent to Pie
Medical Imaging’s 3mensio. Table 1 below summarizes the substantive
feature/technological similarities and differences between the subject and
predicate devices.
Table 1. Substantial Equivalence
Comparison Subject Device Predicate Device Secondary Reference Comparison
Feature Predicate Device Device between the
Philips Medical Pie Medical
subject and
Systems' AV Imaging’s Philips Medical Philips Medical
predicate
Vascular 3mensio Systems' Systems'
devices
Structural Heart / Multimodality Spectral CT
(identical/
3mensio Advanced Vessel Applications
different)
Vascular Analysis (MM (K150665)
(K153736) AVA) application
(K203216)
Device Class Class II Class II Class II Class II Identical
Classification Radiology Radiology Radiology Radiology Identical
Panel
Product QIH, LLZ LLZ JAK JAK, LLZ Similar to
Code primary
predicate
device
Regulation Medical image Medical image Computed Computed Identical to
Description management and management and tomography x-ray tomography x-ray primary
processing processing system system predicate
system system device
Medical image
management and
processing
system
Regulation 892.2050 892.2050 892.1750 892.1750 Identical to
Number 892.2050 primary
predicate
device
Indications AV Vascular is 3mensio The Multimodality The Philips Different
for Use indicated to assist Workstation is a Advanced Vessel Spectral CT
users in the standalone Analysis (MM AVA) Applications
visualization, software for application is support viewing
assessment and medical image intended for and analysis of
quantification of analysis intended visualization, images at
vascular anatomy for advanced assessment and energies selected
4Comparison Subject Device Predicate Device Secondary Reference Comparison
Feature Predicate Device Device between the
Philips Medical Pie Medical
subject and
Systems' AV Imaging’s Philips Medical Philips Medical
predicate
Vascular 3mensio Systems' Systems'
devices
Structural Heart / Multimodality Spectral CT
(identical/
3mensio Advanced Vessel Applications
different)
Vascular Analysis (MM (K150665)
(K153736) AVA) application
(K203216)
on CTA and/or visualization and quantification of from the available
MRA datasets, in quantitative vascular datasets. spectrum in order
order to assess analysis for to provide
patients with diagnostic and/or information about
suspected or for assistance the chemical
diagnosed during treatment in composition of the
vascular the field of body materials
pathology and to cardiology or and/or contrast
assist with pre- radiology by agents. The
procedural means of enabling Spectral CT
planning for visualization and Applications
endovascular measurement of provide for the
interventions. structures of the quantification and
heart and vessels graphical display
for: of attenuation,
• Pre-operational material density,
planning and and effective
sizing for atomic number.
cardiovascular This information
interventions may be used by a
and surgery trained healthcare
• Postoperative professional as a
evaluation diagnostic tool for
• Support of the visualization
clinical diagnosis and analysis of
by quantifying anatomical and
dimensions in pathological
coronary arteries structures.
• Support of The Spectral
clinical diagnosis enhanced
by quantifying Advanced Vessel
calcifications Analysis (sAVA)
(calcium scoring) application is
in the coronary intended to assist
arteries clinicians in
To facilitate the viewing and
above, the evaluating CT
3mensio images, for the
Workstation inspection of
provides general contrast-
functionality such enhanced
as: vessels.
5Comparison Subject Device Predicate Device Secondary Reference Comparison
Feature Predicate Device Device between the
Philips Medical Pie Medical
subject and
Systems' AV Imaging’s Philips Medical Philips Medical
predicate
Vascular 3mensio Systems' Systems'
devices
Structural Heart / Multimodality Spectral CT
(identical/
3mensio Advanced Vessel Applications
different)
Vascular Analysis (MM (K150665)
(K153736) AVA) application
(K203216)
• Segmentation of The Spectral
cardiovascular enhanced
structures Comprehensive
• Automatic and Cardiac Analysis
manual (sCCA)
centerline application is
detection intended to assist
• Visualization and clinicians in
image viewing and
reconstruction evaluating
techniques: 2D cardiovascular CT
review, Volume images.
Rendering, The Spectral
MPR, Curved enhanced Tumor
MPR, Stretched Tracking (sTT)
CMRP, application is
Slabbing, MIP, intended to assist
AIP, MinIP clinicians in
• Measurement viewing and
and annotation evaluating CT
tools images, for the
Reporting tools inspection of
tumors.
Clinical Characteristics
Intended Head and neck, Heart and vessels Head and neck, Head and neck, Identical to
body part body, peripherals body, peripherals body, peripherals secondary
predicate
device
Type of CTA and MRA CT Angiography CTA and MRA CT Angiography Identical to
scans secondary
predicate
device
Technological features
Spectral Yes No No Yes Identical to
capabilities reference
device
Subclavian Automatic vessel Automatic vessel Automatic vessel Automatic vessel Different
Artery centerline centerline centerline centerline
extraction of the
extraction
head, neck and
6Comparison Subject Device Predicate Device Secondary Reference Comparison
Feature Predicate Device Device between the
Philips Medical Pie Medical
subject and
Systems' AV Imaging’s Philips Medical Philips Medical
predicate
Vascular 3mensio Systems' Systems'
devices
Structural Heart / Multimodality Spectral CT
(identical/
3mensio Advanced Vessel Applications
different)
Vascular Analysis (MM (K150665)
(K153736) AVA) application
(K203216)
Centerline body including extraction of the extraction of the
Extraction shoulder region head and neck head and neck
Aorto-iliac Automatic non-AI No Automatic non-AI Automatic non-AI Different
Outer Wall based vessel based vessel based vessel
Segmentatio contouring of contouring of major contouring of
n major vessels. vessels, including major vessels,
the aorta and including the
Automatic AI-
common and aorta and
based vessel
external iliac common and
contouring
specifically for the arteries. external iliac
aorta and arteries.
common and
external iliac
arteries.
Review Review Marker Review Marker Review Marker tool Review Marker Different
Marker tool tool including tool including tool
manual ring
manual ring
markers, and non-
markers
AI based
automatic ring
markers for the
ostia of the SMA,
LRA and RRA
7