June 18, 2026
InformAI, Inc.
Jackie Coleman
Regulatory Lead
2450 Holcombe Blvd.
Houston, Texas 77021
Re: K253050
Trade/Device Name: RadOncAI
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.5050
Regulation Name: Medical charged-particle radiation therapy system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: MUJ
Dated: May 19, 2026
Received: May 19, 2026
Dear Jackie Coleman:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.K253050 - Jackie Coleman Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. SeeK253050 - Jackie Coleman Page 3
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Daniel M. Krainak, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
DHT8C: Division of Radiologic Imaging
and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K253050
Device Name
RadOncAI
Indications for Use (Describe)
RadOncAI is indicated for use in a clinical setting by radiation oncologists, medical physicists, and dosimetrists to
configure and review radiotherapy treatment plans for adult patients with malignant or benign head-and-neck disease.
The software accepts:
CT-simulation scan
Clinician-defined planning target volumes; and
Clinician-supplied data of organs-at-risk (OARs)
Using these inputs, RadOncAI generates a patient-specific preliminary dose distribution that includes:
Estimated achievable dose coverage to the planning target volume(s); and
Estimated achievable sparing of surrounding OARs.
The directive derived from the AI-generated plan must be reviewed, revised and approved by a qualified professional
before clinical implementation. The AI-generated dose distribution generated by the software is intended to be transferred
to a compatible radiotherapy TPS or reviewed using DICOM-RT compliant software prior to further use in clinical
workflows. RadOncAI is not intended for primary diagnosis, autonomous clinical decision-making, delivery of radiation,
or use in patient populations, anatomic sites, or treatment modalities outside the indications stated above. Caution: Federal
law restricts this device to sale by or on the order of a physician.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFK253050
510(k) Summary
InformAI, Inc.
This 510(k) Summary is in conformance with 21 CFR 807.92
Submitter: InformAI, Inc.
2450 Holcombe Blvd
TMCi Innovation Center
Houston, Texas 77021
United States
Primary Contact: Jim Havelka, CEO
InformAI, Inc.
Email: jcoleman@informai.com
Phone: 832-754-5350
Device Name and Classification
Trade Name: RadOncAI
Common Name: Radiation Treatment Planning Support Software; AI-Powered Dose
Prediction Software
Classification: Class II
Regulation Number: 21 CFR § 892.5050 Medical charged-particle radiation therapy system
Classification Panel: Radiology
Product Code: MUJ
Predicate Device:
Predicate Device
Trade Name Oncospace
Common Name Oncospace
510(k) Submitter / Holder Sigrid Schoepel
Oncospace, Inc.
510(k) Number K222803
Classification Class II
Regulation Number 21 CFR § 892.5050
Medical charged-particle radiation therapy system
Classification Panel Radiology
Product Code MUJ
The predicate device has not been subject to a design-related recall.
Device Description
RadOncAI is a software-only Class II medical device; it is an artificial intelligence-guided (AI/ML) dose
prediction platform for head and neck radiation therapy treatment planning. The device enables clinicians
to generate high-quality, patient-specific dose plans. The software takes the patient’s diagnostic CT
images and clinician-defined targets/organs-at-risk as inputs, and produces a predicted, optimized 3D
radiation dose distribution as the output. The device employs locked machine learning models that are
not modifiable by the end user. RadOncAI works in conjunction with, and does not replace, a treatment
planning system (TPS). The device does not perform final dose calculation for treatment delivery. Rather,
the generated preliminary dose predictions must be transferred to a compatible Treatment Planning
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 1 of 21System (TPS), and reviewed by qualified radiation therapy professionals, who optimize and finalize the
dose treatment plan prior to clinical implementation.
RadOncAI is a locked supervised machine-learning device. Model training, internal validation/tuning, and
development testing were completed before final FDA validation. The final FDA validation cohort was
assembled separately and was used only to evaluate the locked model. Prior to selection of the final FDA
validation cohort, anonymized patient identifiers associated with the model training/development datasets
were identified and excluded from the regulatory validation candidate pool. The final 500-patient FDA
validation cohort, including the 50-case clinical QC subset, was therefore patient-level distinct from the
model training/development datasets. Training data comprised historical adult head and neck
radiotherapy cases with available treatment-planning image/structure information, clinician-defined
targets and OARs, prescription information, and clinically delivered or clinically accepted photon
treatment-planning dose data appropriate for model development. Data exclusions included: cases
outside the adult head and neck intended-use population; cases lacking required imaging, structure,
prescription, or dose data; cases not meeting clinical planning-quality requirements for model-
development use.
The radiation oncology workflow with RadOncAI is shown below:
Intended Use
RadOncAI is indicated for use in a clinical setting by radiation oncologists, medical physicists, and
dosimetrists to configure and review radiotherapy treatment plans for adult patients with malignant or
benign head-and-neck disease. The AI-generated dose distribution is exported as a DICOM RT Dose
object and is intended to be transferred to a compatible radiotherapy TPS or reviewed using DICOM-RT
compliant software prior to further use in clinical workflows. This device is for prescription use by order of
a clinician.
Indications for Use
RadOncAI is indicated for use in a clinical setting by radiation oncologists, medical physicists, and
dosimetrists to configure and review radiotherapy treatment plans for adult patients with malignant or benign
head-and-neck disease.
The software accepts:
● CT-simulation scan
● Clinician-defined planning target volumes; and
● Clinician-supplied data of organs-at-risk (OARs)
Using these inputs, RadOncAI generates a patient-specific preliminary dose distribution that includes:
● Estimated achievable dose coverage to the planning target volume(s); and
● Estimated achievable sparing of surrounding OARs.
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 2 of 21The directive derived from the AI-generated plan must be reviewed, revised and approved by a qualified
professional before clinical implementation. The AI-generated dose distribution generated by the software
is intended to be transferred to a compatible radiotherapy TPS or reviewed using DICOM-RT compliant
software prior to further use in clinical workflows. RadOncAI is not intended for primary diagnosis,
autonomous clinical decision-making, delivery of radiation, or use in patient populations, anatomic sites, or
treatment modalities outside the indications stated above. Caution: Federal law restricts this device to
sale by or on the order of a physician.
Comparison of Technology Table
The table below provides a detailed comparison of technology:
Comparison RadOncAI K253050 Oncospace K222803
Item (Subject Device) (Predicate Device) Comparison Assessment
Product Code MUJ (21 CFR 892.5050) MUJ (21 CFR 892.5050) Same. Both devices are
classified under the same
product code for radiation
therapy treatment planning
systems.
Device System, Planning, System, Planning, Same. Both devices share
Classification Radiation Therapy Radiation Therapy the same classification name
Treatment (Class II) Treatment (Class II) and regulatory class.
Intended Use RadOncAI is indicated for Oncospace is used to Substantially Equivalent.
use in a clinical setting by configure and review Both devices provide AI-
radiation oncologists, radiotherapy treatment generated dosimetric
medical physicists, and plans for a patient with guidance for external beam
dosimetrists to configure malignant or benign radiotherapy treatment
and review radiotherapy disease in the prostate, planning for head and neck
treatment plans for adult head, and neck regions. cancer, intended for use by
patients with malignant or It allows for set up of qualified radiation therapy
benign head-and-neck radiotherapy treatment professionals. Both require
disease. The AI- protocols, association of output to be reviewed in a
generated dose a potential treatment TPS before clinical use. The
distribution is exported as plan with the protocol(s), subject device is indicated
a DICOM RT Dose object submission of a dose for head and neck only; the
and is intended to be prescription and predicate also covers
transferred to a achievable dosimetric prostate cancer. The
compatible radiotherapy goals to a treatment narrower anatomical scope
TPS or reviewed using planning system, and does not raise new
DICOM-RT compliant review of the treatment questions of safety or
software prior to further plan. It is intended for effectiveness.
use in clinical workflows. use by qualified, trained
This device is for radiation therapy
professionals. This
device is for prescription
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 3 of 21Comparison RadOncAI K253050 Oncospace K222803
Item (Subject Device) (Predicate Device) Comparison Assessment
prescription use by order use by order of a
of a clinician. physician.
Indications for RadOncAI is indicated for Oncospace is used to Different. The differences do
Use use in a clinical setting by configure and review not constitute a new
radiation oncologists, radiotherapy treatment intended use. Both devices
medical physicists, and plans for a patient with are prescription-use
dosimetrists to configure malignant or benign radiation treatment planning
and review radiotherapy disease in the prostate, support software tools used
treatment plans for adult head, and neck regions. by qualified radiation therapy
patients with malignant or It allows for set up of professionals to configure
benign head-and-neck radiotherapy treatment and review radiotherapy
disease. The software protocols, association of treatment plans in
accepts: 1) CT-simulation a potential treatment conjunction with a treatment
scan, 2) Clinician-defined plan with the protocol(s), planning system. RadOncAI
planning target volumes; submission of a dose is limited to adult patients
and 3) Clinician-supplied prescription and with malignant or benign
data of organs-at-risk achievable dosimetric head-and-neck disease,
(OARs). Using these goals to a treatment while the predicate includes
inputs, RadOncAI planning system, and patients with malignant or
generates a patient- review of the treatment benign disease in the
specific preliminary dose plan. It is intended for prostate, head, and neck
distribution that includes: use by qualified, trained regions; this narrower
Estimated achievable radiation therapy anatomical scope does not
dose coverage to the professionals (such as raise new questions of safety
planning target medical physicists, or effectiveness. RadOncAI
volume(s); and Estimated oncologists, and exports an AI-generated
achievable sparing of dosimetrists). This DICOM RT Dose object for
surrounding OARs. The device is for prescription TPS or DICOM-RT review,
directive derived from the use by order of a while the predicate submits
AI-generated plan must physician. prescription and achievable
be reviewed, revised and dosimetric goals to a TPS;
approved by a qualified both outputs provide
professional before dosimetric planning
clinical implementation. guidance that requires
The AI-generated dose qualified professional review
distribution generated by before clinical use.
the software is intended
to be transferred to a
compatible radiotherapy
TPS or reviewed using
DICOM-RT compliant
software prior to further
use in clinical workflows.
RadOncAI is not intended
for primary diagnosis,
autonomous clinical
decision-making, delivery
of radiation, or use in
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 4 of 21Comparison RadOncAI K253050 Oncospace K222803
Item (Subject Device) (Predicate Device) Comparison Assessment
patient populations,
anatomic sites, or
treatment modalities
outside the indications
stated above. Caution:
Federal law restricts this
device to sale by or on
the order of a physician.
Software V&V Validation testing was Validation testing was Both devices demonstrated
/ Performance performed using performed using safety and effectiveness
Testing retrospective clinical data retrospective clinical through retrospective clinical
from 500 adult head and data. Non-inferiority of validation using paired plan
neck cancer patients mean OAR dose sparing comparisons. The subject
from UT Southwestern was demonstrated. For device's validation is more
(UTSW) and multiple H&N: 19 plans tested, extensive for head and neck
Arizona Oncology sites. 27 OARs evaluated, use: larger sample size (500
The final validation cohort non-inferiority vs. 19 patients for the
included 295 definitive demonstrated to 8 Gy. predicate head and neck
and 205 post- No statistically validation), multi-source
operative/adjuvant cases. significant differences in design, independent clinical
The study demonstrated target coverage. review component, and
PTV dose equivalence tighter equivalence/non-
for 9/9 pre-specified PTV inferiority margins (3 Gy vs.
tests within +/-300 cGy 8 Gy). These differences
and OAR non-inferiority support substantial
for 21/21 pre-specified equivalence and do not raise
OAR metrics within +300 new questions of safety or
cGy at adjusted alpha effectiveness.
levels. Additionally, 50
AI-generated cases were
independently reviewed
by 3 board-certified
radiation oncologists for
150 total reviewer
assessments,
demonstrating 100.0%
clinical acceptability and
98.7% OAR achievability.
Model-specific
assessment was
performed separately for
definitive and post-
operative/adjuvant
models.
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 5 of 21Comparison RadOncAI K253050 Oncospace K222803
Item (Subject Device) (Predicate Device) Comparison Assessment
Typical Users Qualified radiation Medical professionals, Same. Both devices are
therapy professionals: including but not limited intended for the same
radiation oncologists, to, radiation oncologists, qualified clinical user
board-certified medical medical physicists or population.
physicists, and certified physicians
medical dosimetrists
Patient Adult patients (aged 18+) There are no Substantially Equivalent. The
Population with malignant or benign demographic, regional, subject device specifies
head-and-neck disease. or cultural limitations for adult head and neck
Validated across diverse patients. It is up to the patients; the predicate
demographics including user to determine if the leaves population
multiple cancer subtypes system can be used for determination to the user.
(oropharyngeal, a patient. The subject device’s explicit
laryngeal, population definition reflects
nasopharyngeal, etc.), FDA expectations for AI
both definitive and post- device labeling and does not
operative cases, and raise new safety concerns.
patients from academic Validation data
and community oncology encompasses 500 patients
settings. across 2 institutions with
diverse demographics (see
Performance Study).
Risk Class II (moderate risk) Class II (moderate risk) Same. Both devices carry
Classification the same risk classification
under 21 CFR 892.5050.
DICOM-RT Yes. The device accepts Yes. The device accepts Same. Both devices operate
Compliant DICOM-RT inputs (CT and exports DICOM-RT within the DICOM-RT
images, RT Structure compliant data. standard for radiation
sets) and exports DICOM therapy data exchange.
RT Dose objects
containing the predicted
3D dose distribution
along with DVH metrics
for OARs.
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 6 of 21Comparison RadOncAI K253050 Oncospace K222803
Item (Subject Device) (Predicate Device) Comparison Assessment
Technological Locked machine learning Locked machine Same processing
Approach algorithm. The subject learning algorithm. The fundamentals. Both devices
device uses pre-trained, predicate uses pre- employ locked machine
locked neural network trained, locked ML learning models trained on
models that generate models that predict patient-specific anatomical
patient-specific dose achievable dosimetric geometry to generate
predictions from goals/objectives for dosimetric predictions for
anatomical geometry. OARs based on patient- radiation therapy treatment
The algorithms are not specific anatomical planning. Both models are
modifiable or editable by geometry. The algorithm locked prior to clinical use
the end user. Two locked is locked prior to clinical and are not modifiable by the
models are provided: one use. end user. The specific model
for definitive treatment architectures differ (the
cases and one for post- subject device generates 3D
operative (adjuvant) dose distributions; the
cases. predicate predicts OAR
dosimetric objectives), but
both produce dosimetric
guidance that is reviewed by
qualified professionals
before clinical use. This
difference in output
granularity does not raise
new questions of safety or
effectiveness, as
demonstrated through the
subject device’s validation
testing (500 patients, 2 sites,
all primary endpoints met).
Full Treatment No. RadOncAI is not a No. Oncospace works in Same. Neither device is a
Planning full treatment planning conjunction with, and full treatment planning
System system. It generates does not replace, a system. Both generate
preliminary dose treatment planning dosimetric information
predictions that must be system (TPS). The user intended to be used within
transferred to a retains full control of the the context of an existing
compatible TPS for plan TPS, including TPS workflow, and both
finalization, optimization, finalization of the require a separate TPS for
and delivery parameter treatment plan. treatment plan finalization
generation. The device and delivery.
does not perform leaf
sequencing, beam
modulation, or final dose
calculation for treatment
delivery.
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 7 of 21Comparison RadOncAI K253050 Oncospace K222803
Item (Subject Device) (Predicate Device) Comparison Assessment
Connected to No. RadOncAI does not No. Oncospace does not Same. Neither device
or Controlling interface with treatment interface with the connects to or controls
of Radiation machines, record-and- treatment machines. radiation delivery devices.
Delivery verify systems, or any The risk to patient safety is
Devices radiation delivery lower than a TPS since both
equipment. devices only inform the
treatment plan and do not
interface directly with
treatment machines.
Input Data Patient CT-simulation Patient CT images, RT Same fundamental data types.
imaging, clinician-defined Structure sets, and target Both devices accept patient
planning target volumes dose information specified CT imaging and structure set
(PTVs), and clinician- via treatment protocols or data (target volumes and OAR
supplied organs-at-risk user input. contours) as primary inputs.
(OAR) contours. The The subject device operates
device operates on on anatomy inputs only; the
anatomy only; dose predicate additionally accepts
prescription and dose prescription parameters
fractionation parameters via protocols or user input.
are determined This difference does not raise
independently by the new safety concerns — the
treating physician. subject device’s dose
predictions are based on
patient-specific anatomy, and
the treating physician
independently determines
prescription and fractionation,
which is standard clinical
practice.
Automatic Yes. Regions of interest Yes. Regions of interest Same. Both devices provide
Structure are automatically are matched as the automatic ROI matching with
Matching matched when patient study is opened in the user override capability. The
data is loaded into the device. Users can adjust subject device additionally
device. The device or match to more includes a mandatory
includes a mandatory available regions of clinician confirmation step for
confirmation step where interest. each structure mapping,
clinicians must providing an additional
individually review and safety check that ensures
approve each structure structure identification
name mapping before accuracy before dose
proceeding. Users can prediction is initiated.
manually adjust any
mapping.
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 8 of 21Comparison RadOncAI K253050 Oncospace K222803
Item (Subject Device) (Predicate Device) Comparison Assessment
Plan Review Yes. RadOncAI includes Contains integrated Substantially Equivalent. Both
Functionality built-in visualization of features and GUI for devices include built-in plan
isodose line overlays on treatment plan review, review features including
CT imaging, DVH display including review of isodose visualization, DVH
for OAR structures, and isodose lines, DVHs, display, and dose summation.
dose summation dose comparison The predicate additionally
capability. Multi-plan between multiple plans, supports multi-plan dose
dose comparison and dose summation. comparison within its own
(comparing AI output Provides a user interface, while the subject
against other plans within interface for plan device relies on the clinical
RadOncAI) is not evaluation against TPS for comparative plan
supported; comparative protocol-based and evaluation. This difference
evaluation of AI-predicted predicted goals. does not raise new safety
dose against manual concerns — comparative plan
plans is performed in the review is a standard function
clinician’s TPS. of the clinical TPS
environment where qualified
professionals already conduct
plan evaluation as part of
routine practice.
Processing Processes input using Processes treatment Same processing
and Device locked ML models to plan data using locked fundamentals but different
Output generate a patient- ML models trained on output formats. Both devices
specific 3D dose patient-specific use locked ML models
distribution, including anatomical geometry to operating on patient-specific
estimated achievable predict achievable anatomy to produce
dose coverage to dosimetric dosimetric predictions. The
planning target volumes goals/objectives for subject device generates a
and estimated achievable OARs. Supplies dose complete 3D dose
sparing of surrounding prescription, delivery distribution exported as a
OARs. Output is exported method, protocol-based DICOM RT Dose object; the
as a DICOM RT Dose target objectives, and predicate predicts OAR
object along with DVH predicted OAR dosimetric objectives and
metrics for each OAR objectives to a TPS to supplies them to a TPS.
structure. automate initiation of Both outputs serve the same
plan optimization. clinical purpose: providing
patient-specific dosimetric
guidance to support
treatment plan optimization.
The difference in output
granularity does not raise
new questions of safety or
effectiveness — both outputs
require review by qualified
professionals and further
processing in a TPS before
clinical use.
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 9 of 21Comparison RadOncAI K253050 Oncospace K222803
Item (Subject Device) (Predicate Device) Comparison Assessment
Import No. RadOncAI does not Yes. Import existing Different. The subject device
Treatment import existing treatment plans from third-party does not support import of
Plans plans from third-party systems to compare third-party treatment plans; it
systems. The device dose objectives against generates de novo dose
generates new dose templates. predictions from patient
predictions from patient anatomy. The predicate
anatomy inputs (CT supports plan import for
imaging and structure comparison against
sets) only. templates. This difference
does not raise new safety
concerns — it reflects a
more focused device scope.
The subject device’s output
is exported to the clinical
TPS, where comparison
against existing plans can be
performed as part of the
standard clinical workflow.
Export Plan Yes. The device exports Yes. Can export the Same. Both devices export
Information AI-generated dose selected plan for review preliminary dosimetric
predictions as DICOM RT and setup by a information for use in
Dose objects for review dosimetrist. Oncospace treatment planning
and further optimization does not export a final workflows and neither
by a dosimetrist in a plan; it will not export to exports a final deliverable
compatible TPS. a record-and-verify plan or interfaces with
RadOncAI does not system. record-and-verify systems.
export a final deliverable The subject device exports
treatment plan and does DICOM RT Dose objects;
not export to a record- the predicate exports
and-verify system. dosimetric objectives in TPS-
specific formats. Both export
mechanisms serve the same
clinical purpose of
transferring AI-generated
dosimetric guidance into the
TPS for further clinical use.
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 10 of 21Comparison RadOncAI K253050 Oncospace K222803
Item (Subject Device) (Predicate Device) Comparison Assessment
Dose RadOncAI displays its AI- Yes. Comparison can be Different. The predicate
predicted DVH metrics done between more includes built-in dose
Objective
for OAR structures. than one selected comparison against multiple
Comparison Comparison of AI- treatment plan. Dose is plans and gold-standard
predicted dose against based on calculated templates. The subject
manual or alternative dose and curated, gold- device displays AI-predicted
plans is not performed standard treatment DVH metrics and relies on
within RadOncAI; such plans. the clinical TPS for
comparisons are comparative dose
performed in the evaluation. This difference
clinician’s TPS after does not raise new safety
export. concerns — dose
comparison is a standard
function of the clinical TPS,
and the subject device’s
workflow ensures qualified
professionals perform
comparative evaluation as
part of routine plan review in
their existing clinical
environment.
Isodose Line Yes. RadOncAI displays Yes. Same. Both devices display
Display isodose lines as visual isodose lines for plan review.
overlays on patient CT
imaging, rendered from
the 3D dose distribution
generated by the AI
model. This is a
visualization of the
predicted dose grid, not
an independent dose
calculation.
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 11 of 21Comparison RadOncAI K253050 Oncospace K222803
Item (Subject Device) (Predicate Device) Comparison Assessment
DVH Display Yes. RadOncAI Yes. Same. Both devices
calculates dose-volume calculate and display dose-
histogram metrics for volume histograms for plan
each OAR structure by review. The subject device
computing dose statistics computes OAR dose metrics
from the 3D dose from its 3D dose prediction
distribution against the output; the predicate
clinician-supplied OAR computes DVH metrics from
contours. These its dosimetric predictions.
calculated DVH metrics
(e.g., mean dose, max
dose) are displayed
within the device
interface.
Operating Windows, macOS, and Windows (Client and Substantially Equivalent. The
System Linux Server) subject device is compatible
with additional operating
systems beyond the
predicate (macOS and Linux
in addition to Windows).
Expanded OS compatibility
increases clinical
deployment flexibility without
introducing new safety risks.
The core device functionality
and clinical output are the
same regardless of
operating system.
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 12 of 21Comparison RadOncAI K253050 Oncospace K222803
Item (Subject Device) (Predicate Device) Comparison Assessment
Platform Client-server Client-server Same architecture. Both
architecture. AWS cloud- architecture. Clinic- devices use client-server
based hosting with provided client architecture with cloud-
HIPAA Business machines, cloud based hosting options. The
Associate Agreement Windows servers subject device uses AWS
(BAA) and encrypted controlled by cloud infrastructure with
data transfer, as well as Oncospace. HIPAA BAA compliance and
clinic-provided on- encrypted data transfer; the
premises hosting options. predicate uses Oncospace-
controlled Windows cloud
servers. Both approaches
provide secure remote
processing with appropriate
data protection measures.
The subject device
additionally supports on-
premises deployment for
institutions requiring local
data control.
Workflow DICOM-RT based data DICOM import, AI Substantially Equivalent.
Interface and exchange. Patient data prediction planning UI, Both devices use DICOM-RT
Integration (CT images, RT Structure TPS scripting integration based data exchange for
sets) is imported via (e.g., Pinnacle scripting integration with clinical TPS
DICOM. AI-generated language) for workflows. The predicate
dose predictions are streamlined additionally includes TPS
exported as DICOM RT transmission of DICOM scripting integration for
Dose objects, which the files and plan automated data transfer; the
clinician manually imports parameters. subject device uses manual
into their clinical TPS DICOM export/import. This
(e.g., Eclipse, Pinnacle, difference does not raise
or a compatible clinical new safety concerns —
TPS consistent with the manual DICOM import is a
device labeling and V&V standard, well-established
testing) for further review, workflow in radiation
optimization, and plan oncology clinics and
finalization. provides the clinician with
direct control over data
transfer.
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 13 of 21Comparison RadOncAI K253050 Oncospace K222803
Item (Subject Device) (Predicate Device) Comparison Assessment
Acceptable 3 Gy (300 cGy) for both 8 Gy for H&N non- The subject device uses a
Dose equivalence and non- inferiority margin substantially tighter dose
Constraint inferiority margins tolerance constraint (3 Gy
Tolerance vs. 8 Gy), representing a
more conservative standard
for establishing device
performance. The 3 Gy
margin is justified through
QUANTEC guidelines,
AAPM TG-218
recommendations,
NRG/RTOG clinical trial
precedent, and published
inter-observer variability
studies (see Performance
Study, Section 2.1).
Machine Learning Approach
RadOncAI is prescription-use software that assists qualified radiation therapy professionals in generating
and evaluating initial external-beam radiotherapy treatment plans for adult definitive and post-operative
head and neck cases. The device uses a locked, supervised machine-learning model to predict a patient-
specific three-dimensional dose distribution from clinician-supplied imaging, structure, and prescription
inputs. The output is a preliminary dose prediction and associated DVH/dose metrics for clinical review; it
is not a final deliverable treatment plan, does not control radiation delivery, and must be reviewed, revised
as needed, and approved by qualified clinical users.
Item RadOncAI Description
Model version AI_Model_RT_Unet_v3.1
Learning approach Supervised deep learning for voxel-level three-dimensional dose prediction
Architecture Convolutional neural network using a hierarchically dense U-Net / HD U-Net
approach with attention mechanisms
Primary inputs DICOM CT simulation image set, DICOM RT Structure Set contours, prescription
dose levels, and treatment intent
Primary outputs Predicted 3D dose distribution, DVH information, and PTV/OAR dose metrics for
clinician review
Clinical use control Locked model used as a treatment-planning aid with required professional review
and approval
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 14 of 21RadOncAI Training, Test, and Final Validation Dataset Separation Summary
RadOncAI is a locked supervised machine-learning device for adult head and neck radiation therapy
treatment-planning support. Model training, internal validation/tuning, and development testing were
completed before final FDA validation. The final FDA validation cohort was assembled separately and
was used only to evaluate the locked model.
Prior to selection of the final FDA validation cohort, anonymized patient identifiers associated with the
model training/development datasets were identified and excluded from the regulatory validation
candidate pool. The final 500-patient FDA validation cohort, including the 50-case clinical QC subset, was
therefore patient-level distinct from the model training/development datasets. The final 500-patient
validation cohort and the 50-case clinical QC subset were used only after model lock and did not
contribute to model training, internal validation/tuning, development testing, model selection, threshold
setting, or post-hoc model updates.
StudyDate ranges are provided below as supporting metadata. The primary separation control was
patient-level identifier exclusion, not calendar-date separation alone.
Dataset Separation Summary
Dataset Composition Use Separation control
Published model- Nguyen et al. (2019) Documents development- The published studies
development datasets described 120 head and stage training, validation, and document development-stage
neck patients: 20 held out test splitting before the current splitting. Patient-level
for testing and the FDA validation. exclusion from the final FDA
remaining 100 evaluated validation cohort was
using 5-fold cross- controlled using the curated
validation with 80 training anonymized identifiers
and 20 validation patients described below.
per fold. Mashayekhi et
al. (2023) described 97
definitive head and neck
SIB VMAT plans split into
80 training, 12 validation,
and 5 testing patients.
Curated model- The regulatory data team Identify model-development These identifiers were
development received anonymized cases to be excluded before removed from the regulatory
exclusion manifests identifiers for 126 final FDA validation cohort validation candidate pool
definitive model- selection. before the final 500-patient
development cases with FDA validation cohort was
CT StudyDate range selected. StudyDate ranges
2011-07-13 to 2017-02- were retained as supporting
08 and 119 post- metadata, but separation was
operative model- controlled at the patient-
development cases with identifier level.
CT StudyDate range
2017-02-21 to 2020-10-
13.
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 15 of 21Dataset Composition Use Separation control
Final FDA validation 500 adult head and neck Final locked-model Selected only after model-
cohort patient cases. Treatment performance validation using development identifiers were
intent: definitive 295 and paired AI-generated and removed from the regulatory
post-operative/adjuvant reference manual treatment- validation candidate pool.
205. CT StudyDate planning data. Used after model lock only;
metadata were available not used for model training,
for all 500 cases: UTSW= internal validation/tuning,
397 (2017-02-14 to 2020- model selection, development
10-26) and Arizona testing, threshold setting, or
Oncology treatment post-hoc model updates.
centers=103 (2019-12-05
to 2024-06-25); combined
range 2017-02-14 to
2024-06-25.
Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria
The datasets were defined to match the intended use of RadOncAI and to prevent training/development
cases from contributing to final FDA validation.
Dataset Inclusion criteria Exclusion criteria
Model training/development Historical adult head and neck Cases outside the adult head and neck
datasets radiotherapy cases with available intended-use population; cases lacking
treatment-planning image/structure required imaging, structure, prescription,
information, clinician-defined targets and or dose data; cases not meeting clinical
OARs, prescription information, and planning-quality requirements for model-
clinically delivered or clinically accepted development use.
photon treatment-planning dose data
appropriate for model development.
Final 500-patient FDA Adult patients at least 18 years old; head Cases categorized as non-head-and-
validation cohort and neck cancer diagnosis within the neck; cases missing critical dosimetric
intended-use population; available CT data needed for primary endpoint
simulation data and clinician-defined analysis; plans not meeting institutional
PTV/OAR structures; available paired AI- dose-calculation or planning-quality
generated and reference manual standards; cases with incomplete clinical
treatment-planning dose data; treatment or demographic metadata required by the
planning performed under established protocol; cases identified as part of the
institutional quality-assurance processes; model training/development datasets.
PTV and OAR data sufficient for
NRG/RTOG- and QUANTEC-informed
endpoint analysis.
Clinical QC subset Randomly selected cases from the No additional QC-specific exclusions
eligible final 500-patient FDA validation were applied after eligibility for the final
cohort to reflect the distribution of clinical validation cohort was established.
groupings.
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 16 of 21Non-Clinical Performance Testing
RadOncAI was validated in accordance with a Verification and Validation plan to ensure conformance
with established performance criteria.
Software
Software verification and validation was performed for RadOncAI. These activities were performed in
accordance with FDA guidance Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software Functions (June
2023) and IEC 62304:2015 Medical device software – Software life cycle processes.
Cybersecurity
InformAI performed cybersecurity testing for RadOncAI in accordance with FDA guidance Cybersecurity
in Medical Devices: Quality Management System Considerations and Content of Premarket Submissions
(February 2026).
Summary of Clinical Validation:
Validation testing was performed using retrospective clinical data from 500 adult head and neck cancer
patients from UT Southwestern (UTSW) and multiple treatment locations for Arizona Oncology. The final
validation cohort included 295 definitive and 205 post-operative/adjuvant cases. The study demonstrated
PTV dose equivalence for 9/9 pre-specified PTV tests within +/-300 cGy and OAR non-inferiority for 21/21
pre-specified OAR metrics within +300 cGy at adjusted alpha levels. Additionally, 50 AI-generated cases
were independently reviewed by 3 board-certified radiation oncologists for 150 total reviewer
assessments, demonstrating 100.0% clinical acceptability and 98.7% OAR achievability. Model-specific
assessment was performed separately for definitive and post-operative/adjuvant models.
Validation Dataset
The validation dataset used for final performance testing included 500 adult head and neck patient cases.
The final FDA analysis also documented the treatment locations represented in the validation cohort,
including three primary treatment locations of UTSW Dallas and multiple Arizona Oncology treatment
locations, as shown in the table below. Each validation case represents one individual patient CT
simulation image set with clinician-defined structures and paired AI-generated and reference manual
treatment-planning dose data.
Dataset Element Count / Description
Individual patient cases / image sets 500
Treatment locations represented UTSW Dallas: 397; Arizona Oncology - Tucson: 64; Arizona Oncology -
Prescott: 36; Arizona Oncology - Goodyear: 1; Arizona Oncology -
Phoenix: 1; Arizona Oncology - Green Valley: 1
Clinical organizations UT Southwestern: 397 (79.4%); Arizona Oncology treatment locations:
103 (20.6%)
Treatment intent Definitive: 295 (59.0%); post-operative/adjuvant: 205 (41.0%)
Patient/sample relationship PTV category and OAR metric observations are derived from the same
500 patient-level cases and are not additional independent patients
PTV endpoint family 9 dose-metric tests: D95, D98, and D99 across high-, intermediate-, and
low-dose PTV categories
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 17 of 21Dataset Element Count / Description
OAR endpoint family 21 standardized OAR Dmean/Dmax metrics
Clinical QC review 50 AI-generated cases reviewed by 3 board-certified radiation oncologists
(150 total assessments)
Demographic Distribution
Demographic characteristics are summarized using the final FDA analysis dataset. Age is presented by
prespecified age group; among patients with numeric age recorded, mean age was 64.0 years (SD 12.4;
median 65.0; range 19-94 years). Sex, race, and ethnicity were recorded from the source clinical dataset
as available.
Category Level N %
Age group >=70 years 178 35.6%
Age group 60-69 years 151 30.2%
Age group 50-59 years 108 21.6%
Age group <50 years 62 12.4%
Age group Unknown 1 0.2%
Sex/Gender as recorded M 307 61.4%
Sex/Gender as recorded F 126 25.2%
Sex/Gender as recorded Unknown/Not Reported 67 13.4%
Race White 333 66.6%
Race Unknown/Not Reported 89 17.8%
Race Black 38 7.6%
Race Declined 23 4.6%
Race Asian 10 2.0%
Race Other 6 1.2%
Race American Indian or Alaska Native 1 0.2%
Ethnicity Non-hispanic 348 69.6%
Ethnicity Unknown/Not Reported 67 13.4%
Ethnicity Hispanic 53 10.6%
Ethnicity Declined 23 4.6%
Ethnicity Unknown 9 1.8%
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 18 of 21Category Level N %
Cancer type Oropharynx 162 32.4%
Cancer type Oral Cavity 99 19.8%
Cancer type Other 84 16.8%
Cancer type Larynx 55 11.0%
Cancer type Salivary Gland 29 5.8%
Cancer type Nasal Cavity 26 5.2%
Cancer type Nasopharynx 17 3.4%
Cancer type Hypopharynx 16 3.2%
Cancer type Thyroid 12 2.4%
Summary Test Statistics and Acceptance Criteria
The final validation analysis used pre-specified paired comparisons of AI-generated dose predictions
against reference manual treatment plans. PTV coverage was evaluated using equivalence testing with
+/-300 cGy margins and family-wise error control across PTV dose categories. OAR sparing was
evaluated using one-sided non-inferiority testing with a +300 cGy margin and Bonferroni adjustment
across the standardized OAR metrics. This framework reflects the clinical objective that target coverage
remains comparable to accepted manual planning while organ-at-risk dose is not meaningfully higher
than the paired manual reference plan.
Endpoint Acceptance Criterion Final Result
PTV coverage equivalence Equivalence within +/-300 cGy; 9/9 tests passed; mean absolute
adjusted alpha = 0.0167 difference 56.0 cGy
OAR dose non-inferiority Non-inferiority within +300 cGy; 21/21 metrics passed; AI lower than
adjusted alpha = 0.00238 manual in 20/21 metrics (95.2%);
mean absolute difference 137.7 cGy
Independent clinical QC AI prediction clinically reasonable and Clinical acceptability 100.0%; OAR
useful as a first-pass dose plan with achievability 98.7%; utility 100.0%;
no unresolved AI-attributable safety unresolved AI-attributable safety
concerns concerns 0
PTV Category Metric N Pairs Mean AI - Manual Result
(cGy)
High Dose PTVs D95 305 -128.7 Pass
(>=66 Gy)
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 19 of 21PTV Category Metric N Pairs Mean AI - Manual Result
(cGy)
High Dose PTVs D98 305 -92.0 Pass
(>=66 Gy)
High Dose PTVs D99 305 -48.9 Pass
(>=66 Gy)
Intermediate Dose D95 291 -79.2 Pass
PTVs (60-65.9 Gy)
Intermediate Dose D98 291 -36.3 Pass
PTVs (60-65.9 Gy)
Intermediate Dose D99 291 16.6 Pass
PTVs (60-65.9 Gy)
Low Dose PTVs D95 422 -44.8 Pass
(<60 Gy)
Low Dose PTVs D98 422 -8.7 Pass
(<60 Gy)
Low Dose PTVs D99 422 48.9 Pass
(<60 Gy)
Clinically Meaningful Subgroups and Confounders
The final statistical report evaluated consistency of device performance across clinically meaningful
subgroups, including treatment site, treatment intent (definitive versus post-operative/adjuvant), cancer
type, and sex. The demographic table above provides the age, race, and ethnicity distributions for the
validation cohort. These analyses were interpreted descriptively with forest plots and clinical-margin
comparisons rather than as separately powered formal hypothesis tests.
● No systematic degradation in PTV equivalence or OAR non-inferiority was identified across the
major clinical subgroups reviewed.
● The paired design compares each AI-generated output with the reference manual plan for the
same patient, controlling for patient anatomy and prescription-related confounding.
● OAR missingness reflects anatomy and clinical contour availability rather than device output
failure; each OAR metric includes all patients for whom that structure was clinically relevant and
available.
● Race and ethnicity distributions are documented for transparency. Some race/ethnicity strata are
small, so performance conclusions for those strata should be interpreted descriptively rather than
as independently powered subgroup claims.
Equipment and Acquisition Protocols
RadOncAI is designed for CT-based external-beam photon radiotherapy treatment planning in adult head
and neck cases. The device accepts DICOM CT simulation scans with 5 mm or less slice thickness and
clinician-defined RT Structure Sets. The device description states that RadOncAI is designed to be
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 20 of 21interoperable with standard DICOM CT images without contrast, regardless of image vendor, provided
image quality is adequate for treatment planning. Clinician-defined PTVs and OAR contours follow
NRG/RTOG and RTOG atlas conventions, with dose evaluation performed using PTV coverage metrics
and OAR Dmean/Dmax metrics.
Reference Standard / Truthing Process
For final validation, the reference standard was the paired clinically generated manual treatment plan and
associated clinician-approved structures for the same patient case. Reference manual plans were created
through established clinical treatment-planning workflows and evaluated according to accepted radiation
oncology standards, including NRG/RTOG planning protocols and QUANTEC-informed OAR dose
assessment. The AI output was then compared against the paired reference plan using patient-level
paired statistical testing. This truthing process reflects the intended clinical use: RadOncAI predicts an
achievable starting dose distribution from patient anatomy and prescribed targets, while the final
deliverable treatment plan remains subject to qualified physician, physicist, and dosimetrist review in the
clinical TPS workflow.
Limitations of Use Relevant to ML Performance
● Validated use is limited to adult head and neck radiotherapy treatment-planning support for
definitive and post-operative/adjuvant cases.
● The model is not intended for pediatric patients, non-head-and-neck anatomical sites, proton
therapy, real-time dose delivery control, or autonomous treatment planning.
● The device is not intended for head and neck skin cancer or brain cancer cases, and the model
was not trained on an extensive dataset of benign tumors.
● Outputs may be adversely affected by low-quality CT images, incorrect or non-standard contours,
significant artifacts, or anatomy outside the validation experience.
All AI-generated dose predictions require independent clinical review, modification as needed, and
approval by qualified radiation therapy professionals. AI-generated outputs must be carefully reviewed
and validated by a qualified clinician before being used in treatment planning.
Conclusion
While there are differences noted in the technological characteristics of the proposed system and the
predicate device, the differences do not raise different questions of safety or effectiveness. Based on the
information provided in this submission, the subject device demonstrates that it is substantially equivalent
to the predicate device through the results of clinical performance and results of non-clinical verification
and validation.
InformAI, Inc.
RadOncAI Traditional 510(k) Page 21 of 21