March 23, 2026
GE Healthcare Japan Corporation
℅ Yonghui Han
Senior Regulatory Affairs Leader
7-127, Asahigaoka, 4-Chome
Hino-Shi, TOKYO, 191-8503
JAPAN
Re: K253686
Trade/Device Name: True Definition DL
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.1750
Regulation Name: Computed tomography x-ray system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: JAK
Dated: February 20, 2026
Received: February 20, 2026
Dear Yonghui Han:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.K253686 - Yonghui Han Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K253686 - Yonghui Han Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Lu Jiang
Lu Jiang, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Diagnostic X-Ray Systems Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K253686
Device Name
True Definition DL
Indications for Use (Describe)
True Definition DL is a deep learning based CT reconstruction method intended for high contrast spatial resolution
enhancement for bone and lung imaging. True Definition DL may be used for patients of all ages.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(k) Premarket Notification Submission - True Definition DL
K253686 510(k) SUMMARY OF SAFETY AND EFFECTIVNESS
This 510(k) summary of Safety and Effectiveness information is submitted in accordance with the
requirement of 21 CFR Part 807.87(h):
Date: February 17, 2026
Submitter: GE Medical Systems, LLC
3000 North Grandview Blvd.
Waukesha, Wisconsin 53188
Primary Contact: Yonghui Han
Sr. Regulatory Affairs Leader
Phone: 1 (262) 225-1914
Email: Yonghui.han@gehealthcare.com
Secondary Contacts: Helen Peng
Sr. Regulatory Affairs Director
Phone: +1 (262) 424-8222
Email: hong.peng@gehealthcare.com.
Device Trade Name: True Definition DL
Device Classification Class II
Regulation Number/ Product Code: 21 CFR 892.1750 Computed tomography x-ray system / JAK
Predicate Device Information
Device Name: Deep Learning Image Reconstruction
Manufacturer: GE Medical Systems, LLC
510(k) Number: K213999
Regulation Number/ Product Code: 21 CFR 892.1750 Computed tomography x-ray system / JAK
Device Description
Computed Tomography (CT) is an indispensable imaging modality in clinical diagnostics due to its ability
to provide detailed cross-sectional images of anatomical structures. However, achieving high spatial
resolution remains a persistent challenge, particularly in applications requiring the visualization of fine
structural details such as in inner auditory canal imaging, vascular studies, lung imaging, and bone
microarchitecture analysis. Reconstruction techniques that attempt to boost spatial resolution typically
also would amplify the noise which often result in tradeoffs to be made between resolution and noise.
1510(k) Premarket Notification Submission - True Definition DL
As part of the continuous innovation to solve the above challenges in CT imaging, GEHC developed a
deep learning-based CT reconstruction algorithm specifically designed for high contrast lung and bone
imaging, which is the subject of this premarket notification. This reconstruction algorithm, marketed
under the name True Definition DL (TDDL), is an additional user-selectable recon option specifically
designed for lung and bone imaging. It aims to enhance spatial resolution for both in-plane and cross-
plane directions. This algorithm is incorporated into the reconstruction chain of the Revolution CT /Apex
Family CT systems including Revolution CT/Revolution CT ES, Revolution Apex Elite, Revolution Apex
Plus, Revolution Apex Select all cleared under (K213715) and Revolution Vibe (K250941).
True Definition DL offers three strengths that the user can choose depending on enhancement
preferences. The benefits provided by this enhancement include improved spatial resolution measured
by MTF.
Intended Use
True Definition DL is a deep learning based CT reconstruction method intended for high contrast spatial
resolution enhancement.
Indications for Use
True Definition DL is a deep learning based CT reconstruction method intended for high contrast spatial
resolution enhancement for bone and lung imaging. True Definition DL may be used for patients of all
ages.
Technological Characteristics
Since the True Definition DL is a recon option for the Revolution CT/Apex system, it utilizes the same
hardware and software platform for reconstruction. The table below summarizes the substantive
feature/technological differences between the predicate device, and the proposed device. The changes
described below do not change the fundamental technology of the predicate device or host system and
do not raise any new questions of safety and effectiveness.
2510(k) Premarket Notification Submission - True Definition DL
Specification Predicate Device Proposed Device
Deep Learning Image Reconstruction True Definition DL
(K213999)
Patient Population Patients of all ages Same
Reconstruction 512 x 512 1024 x 1024
Matrix 1024 x 1024
Anatomies Head, Body (including bone and lung), Cardiac Bone and lung
Hardware DLIR is a recon option implemented on the Same
operator console for Revolution Apex systems.
Clinical workflow Built into routine clinical workflow with 3 Same
strengths to select from (Low, Medium, High)
Determination of Substantial Equivalence
True Definition DL has successfully completed the design control testing per GE HealthCare’s quality
system. No additional hazards were identified, and no unexpected test results were observed. True
Definition DL was designed under GE HealthCare’s QMS per the Quality System Regulations of 21CFR 820
and ISO 13485. GEHC believes that the successfully completed design verification & validation, as well as
the extensive bench testing is sufficient for FDA’s substantial equivalence determination.
The following quality assurance measures have been applied to the development of the system:
• Requirement Definition
• Risk Analysis and Control
• Technical Design Reviews
• Formal Design Reviews
• Software Development Lifecycle
Code Review
o
Software Unit Implementation
o
Software Integrations and Integration Testing
o
• System Testing
Safety Testing (Verification)
o
Image Performance Testing (Verification)
o
Simulating Use Testing (Validation)
o
• Software Release
The testing and results did not raise different questions of safety and effectiveness than associated with
predicate device.
Summary of Non-Clinical Testing
A range of bench testing on phantoms was performed to measure the performance of True Definition DL.
The tests include well established test methods using industry-standard IQ metrics. The test data
demonstrated acceptable overall image quality and substantially equivalent performance of True
Definition DL to the predicate measured on the Revolution CT/Apex scanner’s traditional metrics.
3510(k) Premarket Notification Submission - True Definition DL
The result of the bench testing showed that True Definition DL improves the in-plane and cross-plane
resolution for body ( lung and bone) scans as well as bony structures in the head acquired from Revolution
CT/Apex without significantly increasing the image noise, in comparison with a sharper resolution kernel.
To evaluate the algorithm robustness of the True Definition DL algorithm, GEHC conducted qualitative
and quantitative test utilizing the entire image reconstruction pipeline. The testing also included
assessment of hallucination risks and their mitigations with the results indicating that True Definition DL
consistently enhanced anatomical edges without introducing spurious structures, preserved noise texture
under realistic dose conditions, and maintained strong correlation with input and target images across all
frequency bands.
Summary of Clinical Testing
The clinical testing was carried out in the form of a reader study of sample clinical data processed using
True Definition DL software. The images were evaluated by US board-certified radiologists.
The result of this reader study validated that True Definition DL provides diagnostic value by improving
high contrast spatial resolution in routine bone (including inner ears and spines) and lung exams and
improves confidence in the assessment of high contrast structures in in these types of images.
In addition, the readers confirmed that the images enhanced by the subject device do not present
algorithm-induced artifacts or enhancements not supported by underlying anatomies.
Substantial Equivalence
True Definition DL was developed under GEHC’s quality system. Design verification, along with bench
testing and the clinical reader study provided in this submission demonstrates that True Definition DL is
substantially equivalent to the predicate device. Verification & Validation testing and risk management
processes did not raise any new questions of safety or effectiveness, or unexpected results, or adverse
effects stemming from the changes. GE HealthCare believes that True Definition DL is substantially
equivalent to the predicate, hence it is safe and effective for its intended use.
4