Ge Medical Systems, LLC
Chris Paulik
Sr. Regulatory Affairs Manager
3000 N. Grandview Blvd.
Waukesha, WI 53188
April 14, 2026
Re: K253502
Trade/Device Name: Critical Care Suite with Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: October 30, 2025
Received: October 30, 2025
Dear Chris Paulik:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK253502 - Chris Paulik Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-K253502 - Chris Paulik Page 3
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureIndications for Use
Please type in the marketing application/submission number, if it is known. This
K253502 ?
textbox will be left blank for original applications/submissions.
.
Please provide the device trade name(s). ?.
H.e
C ritical Care Suite with Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm
lp.
HTee
lxpt
Please provide your Indications for Use below. ?
Te
.
xt
C ritical Care Suite with Enteric Tube AI Algorithm analyzes frontal chest and abdominal x-ray images and
.
produces an on-screen image overlay that detects and localizes an enteric tube that has been inserted
He
nasally or orally, locates the tube tip, and locates the tube side port (if present). It also produces an on-
lp
screen image overlay that detects and localizes the diaphragm and the airways (carina with left and right
Te
bronchi). This information is also transmitted to the radiologist for review.
xt
Intended users include licensed qualified healthcare professional (HCP) who have been trained to
independently place and/or assess the placement of enteric tubes inserted nasally or orally and radiologists.
Critical Care Suite with the Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm should not be used in-lieu of full patient
evaluation or solely relied upon to make or confirm a diagnosis. It is not intended to replace the review of
the X-ray image by a qualified healthcare professional. Critical Care Suite with the Enteric Tube Positioning
AI algorithm is indicated for both adult and pediatric patients.
Please select the types of uses (select one or both, as Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D)
?
applicable). Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
.
.
He
lp
Te
xtGE Healthcare
510(k) Premarket Notification Submission –
Critical Care Suite with Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm
K253502
510(k) Summary:
In accordance with 21 CFR 807.92 the following summary information is provided:
Date: April 13, 2026
Owner / GE HealthCare, (GE Medical Systems, LLC)
Submitter: 3000 N. Grandview Blvd
Waukesha, WI 53188 USA
Primary Chris Paulik
Contact Senior Regulatory Affairs Manager
Person: GE Healthcare
262-894-5415
Christopher.A.Paulik@gehelathcare.com
Secondary Gregory Pessato
Contact Regulatory Affairs Director
Person: GE Healthcare
+33 (6) 34423240
GregoryPessato@gehealthcare.com
Device Trade Critical Care Suite with Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm
Name:
Common / Medical Image Management and Processing System
Usual Name:
Regulation Medical Image Management and Processing System
Name:
Regulation: 21 CFR 892.2050
Classification: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Predicate Critical Care Suite with Endotracheal Tube Positioning AI Algorithm (K211161)
Device:
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management and Processing System Regulation: 21
CFR 892.2050
Classification: Class II
Product Codes: QIH
Device Critical Care Suite is a suite of AI algorithms for the automated image analysis of x-rays
Description: acquired on a digital x-ray system for the presence of critical findings, quality checks
and/or measurements. Critical Care Suite with Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm is
a quantification tool that analyses chest and abdominal x-ray images for the presence
of an enteric tube that has been inserted either nasally or orally. This algorithm was
developed using over 12,000 images from 15 sources located across the United States,
Canada, European Union, and India. If an enteric tube is detected, it highlights the
tube’s location within the image and locates its tip and side port (if present). It then
highlights the airways (carina with the left and right bronchi) as well as the diaphragm.
Page 2 of 6GE Healthcare
510(k) Premarket Notification Submission –
Critical Care Suite with Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm
The users of this algorithm are those licensed qualified healthcare providers (HCP) that
have been trained to independently place and/or assess the placement of an enteric
tube and radiologists. The outputs of the proposed algorithm are intended to assist
these users in their assessment of the enteric tube placement within pediatric and adult
patients.
Critical Care Suite with Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm is a software module that
can be deployed on several computing platforms such as PACS, On Premise, On Cloud or
Digital Projection Radiographic Systems. The AMX Navigate mobile x-ray system was
chosen as the initial platform for deployment because enteric tube placement images
are almost exclusively acquired on mobile x-ray systems due to the limited mobility of
the patients requiring an enteric tube.
Intended Use: Critical Care Suite with Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm is intended to provide
automated radiological image processing and analysis tools implementing artificial
intelligence including nonadaptive machine learning algorithms trained with clinical
and/or artificial data
Indications for Critical Care Suite with Enteric Tube AI Algorithm analyzes frontal chest and abdominal
Use: x-ray images and produces an on-screen image overlay that detects and localizes an
enteric tube that has been inserted nasally or orally, locates the tube tip, and locates
the tube side port (if present). It also produces an on-screen image overlay that detects
and localizes the diaphragm and the airways (carina with left and right bronchi). This
information is also transmitted to the radiologist for review.
Intended users include licensed qualified healthcare professional (HCP) who have been
trained to independently place and/or assess the placement of enteric tubes inserted
nasally or orally and radiologists.
Critical Care Suite with the Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm should not be used in-
lieu of full patient evaluation or solely relied upon to make or confirm a diagnosis. It is
not intended to replace the review of the X-ray image by a qualified healthcare
professional. Critical Care Suite with the Enteric Tube Positioning AI algorithm is
indicated for both adult and pediatric patients.
Product
Critical Care Suite with Enteric Tube AI Critical Care Suite with Endotracheal
Device
Algorithm Tube Positioning AI Algorithm (K211161)
Comparison
Device Automated Radiological Image Processing Software Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Classification
Class II, QIH Class II, QIH
Targeted clinical Enteric Tube Placement Endotracheal Tube Placement
condition,
Chest/Lung and Stomach Chest/Lung
anatomy, and
imaging modality Frontal Chest and Abdominal X-Ray Imaging Frontal Chest X-Ray Imaging
Page 3 of 6GE Healthcare
510(k) Premarket Notification Submission –
Critical Care Suite with Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm
Product
Critical Care Suite with Enteric Tube AI Critical Care Suite with Endotracheal
Device
Algorithm Tube Positioning AI Algorithm (K211161)
Comparison
Algorithm AI deep learning algorithms designed to visualize AI deep learning algorithms designed to visualize
Inferencing and quantify enteric tube positioning in frontal and quantify endotracheal tube positioning in
Mechanism chest and abdominal x-ray images frontal chest x-ray images
Computational On-Device computation (integrated onto x-ray On-Device computation (integrated onto x-ray
Platform system) system)
Critical Care Suite with Enteric Tube Positioning AI Critical Care Suite with Endotracheal Tube
Algorithm is designed as a self-contained software Positioning AI Algorithm is designed as a self-
module deployable on various computational and contained software module deployable on various
imaging system platforms. computational and imaging system platforms.
Notification / Clinical Care Team – Licensed qualified healthcare Clinical Care Team – Licensed qualified healthcare
Visualization professionals trained on enteric tube placement – professionals trained on endotracheal tube
Recipient and immediately on device upon image acquisition for placement – immediately on device upon image
Timing Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm acquisition for Endotracheal Tube Positioning AI
Algorithm
Radiologist – immediately after images are sent to
PACS via secondary capture image and DICOM tag Radiologist – immediately after images are sent to
PACS via secondary capture image and DICOM tag
Algorithm Visualization Visualization
Outputs
 Enteric tube  Endotracheal tube
 Enteric Tube Tip  Endotracheal Tube Tip
 Enteric Tube Side Port  Carina
 Diaphragm
Quantification
 Airways (carina with left and right
bronchi).  Vertical distance between the
endotracheal tube tip and carina
Quantification
 None
Destination for Image annotation on a secondary DICOM image and Image annotation on a secondary DICOM image and
Viewing a DICOM tag that identifies if an enteric tube was a DICOM tag that identifies if an endotracheal tube
Algorithm detected within the study. was detected within the study which includes the
Results vertical distance measurement between the
The output can be immediately used to visualize the
endotracheal tube tip and carina.
results on any DICOM destination such as a user’s
images storage system (PACS) or the x-ray system. The output can be immediately used to visualize the
results on any DICOM destination such as a user’s
images storage system (PACS) or the x-ray system.
Page 4 of 6GE Healthcare
510(k) Premarket Notification Submission –
Critical Care Suite with Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm
Clinical and Summary of Non-Clinical Tests:
Non-Clinical
The following quality assurance measures were applied to the development of Critical
Tests:
Care Suite with Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm and deployment onto the AMX
Navigate system:
1. Risk Analysis
2. Requirements Reviews
3. Design Reviews
4. Testing on unit level (Module verification)
5. Integration testing (System verification)
6. Performance testing (Verification)
7. Safety testing (Verification)
8. Simulated use testing (Validation)
Critical Care Suite with Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm specific verification was
conducted to demonstrate proper implementation of Critical Care Suite software
design requirements.
Regression testing on the AMX Navigate functionality was conducted to verify proper
integration of Critical Care Suite with Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm into the
AMX Navigate software and device. Validation was performed on AMX Navigate with
integrated Critical Care Suite with Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm.
Design verification and validation testing was performed to confirm that the safety and
effectiveness of the device has not been affected. The test plans and results have been
executed with acceptable results.
Summary of Clinical Tests:
The performance of the Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm was tested against a
ground truth dataset. The ground truth dataset contained 954 images that were not
used in the development of the algorithm from five sites across North America and the
United Kingdom to adequately analyze all the primary and secondary endpoints and
the results met the defined passing criteria. This dataset included images from both
male and female patients that ranged in age from neonates to over 65 years of age. It
included both chest and abdominal x-ray images (including babygrams) of varying
image quality and difficulty, such as other objects within the image (e.g. breathing
tubes). It also included multiple enteric tube types that did or did not include a
radiopaque line as well as images acquired on systems from at least eight different
venders. The ground truth was determined by five expert annotators that included both
board certified general and pediatric radiologists that conducted two reads on each
image with an arbitration process.
Page 5 of 6GE Healthcare
510(k) Premarket Notification Submission –
Critical Care Suite with Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm
The Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm achieved a sensitivity of 0.992 (0.982, 0.997)
and a specificity of 0.975 (0.947, 0.991). It also displayed strong localization capabilities
with a mean DICE score of 0.911 (0.912, 0.921) for tube localization.
For tube tip detection, the algorithm achieved a sensitivity of 0.957 (0.935, 0.973) and
a specificity of 0.941 (0.901, 0.968). In assessing side ports, it reached a sensitivity of
0.931 (0.904, 0.952) and a specificity of 0.859 (0.801, 0.905).
Additionally, the algorithm delivered mean DICE scores of 0.741 (0.730, 0.753) for
airway localization and 0.821 (0.808, 0.834) for diaphragm localization. It also provided
precise localization with mean errors of 1.789 mm (1.222, 2.356) for the tube tip and
2.575 mm (1.731, 3.420) for the side port.
Determination The introduction of Critical Care Suite with Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm does
of Substantial not result in any new potential safety risks, and has the same technological
Equivalence: characteristics, and performs as well as the predicate device.
After analyzing design verification and validation testing on the bench and in the clinical
ground truth study it is the conclusion of GE HealthCare that the Critical Care Suite with
Enteric Tube Positioning AI Algorithm software to be as safe, as effective, and
performance is substantially equivalent to the predicate device.
Page 6 of 6