February 12, 2026
Medtronic Navigation, Inc.
Victoria Baldock
Senior Regulatory Affairs Specialist
200 Medtronic Dr.
Lafayette, Colorado 80026
Re: K253381
Trade/Device Name: Stealth AXiS™ Surgical System with Stealth AXiS™ Spine clinical application
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 882.4560
Regulation Name: Stereotaxic Instrument
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: OLO
Dated: November 13, 2025
Received: November 14, 2025
Dear Victoria Baldock:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK253381 - Victoria Baldock Page 2
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICEK253381 - Victoria Baldock Page 3
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Shumaya Ali -S
Shumaya Ali, M.P.H.
Assistant Director
DHT6C: Division of Restorative,
Repair, and Trauma Devices
OHT6: Office of Orthopedic Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 06/30/2023
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K253381
Device Name
Stealth AXiS™ Surgical System
Stealth AXiS™ Spine Clinical Application
Indications for Use (Describe)
Stealth AXiS™ Surgical System
The Stealth AXiS™ Surgical System is intended for precise positioning of surgical instruments and as an aid for precisely
locating anatomical structures in open, minimally invasive, and percutaneous procedures. The Stealth AXiS™ Surgical
System is indicated for medical conditions in which the use of stereotactic surgery may be appropriate, and where
reference to a rigid anatomical structure, such as the vertebra, can be identified relative to a CT or MR based model,
fluoroscopy images, or digitized landmarks of the anatomy.
The Stealth AXiS™ Surgical System is indicated for precise robotic positioning of surgical instruments or implants during
orthopedic or neurosurgery. It may be used in open, minimally invasive, and percutaneous procedures.
Stealth AXiS™ Spine Clinical Application
The Stealth AXiS™ Surgical System, with the Stealth AXiS™ Spine clinical application, is intended for precise
positioning of surgical instruments and as an aid for precisely locating anatomical structures in open, minimally invasive,
and percutaneous procedures. Their use is indicated for medical conditions in which the use of stereotactic surgery may be
appropriate, and where reference to a rigid anatomical structure, such as the spine or pelvis, can be identified relative to
images of the anatomy.
This can include procedures in adult patients, such as:
•Interbody device placement
• Pedicle screw placement
•Iliosacral screw placement
This can include the following spinal implant procedure in skeletally mature pediatric (adolescent) patients:
• Pedicle screw placement
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (6/20) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(k) Summary
February 6, 2025
I. Company: Medtronic Navigation, Inc.
200 Medtronic Drive
Lafayette, CO 80026
Telephone Number: (720) 890-3160
Contact: Victoria Baldock
Senior Regulatory Affairs Specialist
Telephone Number: (423) 863-5907
Email: tori.a.baldock@medtronic.com
Carey Brenner (Alternate)
Principal Regulatory Affairs Specialist
Telephone Number: (720) 890-2185
Email: carey.j.brenner@medtronic.com
II. Proprietary Trade Name: Stealth AXiS™ Surgical System with Stealth AXiS™ Spine Clinical
Application
III. Common Name: Orthopedic Stereotaxic Instrument
IV. Classification Name: Stereotaxic Instrument (21 CFR 882.4560)
V. Classification: Class II
VI. Product Code: OLO (Orthopedic Stereotaxic Instrument)
VII. Predicate Devices:
The legally marketed predicate and reference devices are identified below:
Subject Device Primary Predicate Device Secondary Predicate
Device
Stealth AXiS Surgical Mazor X System with Software StealthStation S8 Platform
System v5.2
K251316 K162309
S.E. September 11, 2025 S.E. March 31, 2017
Stealth AXiS Spine StealthStation S8 Spine
Clinical Application Software v2.1
K251282
S.E. October 17, 2025
K253381, Page 1 of 9.VIII. Device Description:
The Stealth AXiS™ Surgical System is a computer-assisted surgery system that is composed
of a platform, clinical application, surgical instruments, and a referencing system (which
includes patient and instrument trackers). The system tracks the position of instruments in
relation to the surgical anatomy, known as localization, and then identifies this position on
preoperative or intraoperative images of a patient. The Stealth AXiS™ Surgical System
supports both optical and electromagnetic (EM) localization. Localization is also called
navigation.
The Stealth AXiS™ Spine clinical application helps guide surgeons during spine procedures.
Patient images can be displayed by the Spine clinical application from a variety of
perspectives (axial, sagittal, coronal, oblique) and 3-dimensional (3D) renderings of
anatomical structures can also be displayed. During navigation, the system identifies the tip
location and trajectory of the tracked instrument on images and models the user has
selected to display. The surgeon may also create and store one or more surgical plan
trajectories before surgery and simulate progression along these trajectories. During surgery,
the clinical application displays how the actual instrument tip position and trajectory relate
to the plan, helping to guide the surgeon along the planned trajectory. While the surgeon's
judgment remains the ultimate authority, real-time positional information obtained through
the Stealth AXiS™ Surgical System can serve to guide this judgment.
With the addition of the Stealth AXiS™ Autopilot to the Stealth AXiS™ Core, the Stealth AXiS™
Surgical System becomes a robotic-assisted surgery system.
IX. Indications for Use:
Stealth AXiS™ Surgical System
The Stealth AXiS™ Surgical System is intended for precise positioning of surgical instruments
and as an aid for precisely locating anatomical structures in open, minimally invasive, and
percutaneous procedures. The Stealth AXiS™ Surgical System is indicated for medical
conditions in which the use of stereotactic surgery may be appropriate, and where reference
to a rigid anatomical structure, such as the vertebra, can be identified relative to a CT or MR
based model, fluoroscopy images, or digitized landmarks of the anatomy.
The Stealth AXiS™ Surgical System is indicated for precise robotic positioning of surgical
instruments or implants during orthopedic or neurosurgery. It may be used in open,
minimally invasive, and percutaneous procedures.
Stealth AXiS™ Spine Clinical Application
The Stealth AXiS™ Surgical System, with the Stealth AXiS™ Spine clinical application, is
intended for precise positioning of surgical instruments and as an aid for precisely locating
anatomical structures in open, minimally invasive, and percutaneous procedures. Their use
is indicated for medical conditions in which the use of stereotactic surgery may be
K253381, Page 2 of 9.appropriate, and where reference to a rigid anatomical structure, such as the spine or pelvis,
can be identified relative to images of the anatomy.
This can include procedures in adult patients, such as:
• Interbody device placement
• Pedicle screw placement
• Iliosacral screw placement
This can include the following spinal implant procedure in skeletally mature pediatric
(adolescent) patients:
• Pedicle screw placement
X. Comparison of Technological Characteristics:
A comparison of the technological characteristics of the subject, primary predicate, and
secondary predicate is provided in the tables below.
Table 1. Stealth AXiS Surgical System Platform and Accessories Substantial Equivalence Comparison
Technological Stealth AXiS Surgical System – Mazor X Stealth Edition – Stealth Station S8 – Platform
Characteristic Platform & Accessories Platform & Accessories & Accessories
(Subject) (K251316 (K162309)
(Primary Predicate) (Secondary Predicate)
Product Code, OLO OLO and LLZ, OLO, PGW and HAW
Class
Class II Class II Class II
Regulation Number 882.4560 882.4560 882.4560
Intended Use The Stealth AXiS Surgical Mazor X is indicated for The StealthStation System is
System is intended for precise precise positioning of intended as an aid for precisely
positioning of surgical surgical instruments or locating anatomical structures
instruments and as an aid for spinal implants during in either open or percutaneous
precisely locating anatomical general spinal surgery. It may procedures.
structures in open, minimally be used in open or minimally
invasive, and percutaneous invasive or percutaneous
procedures. procedures.
Indications for Use The Stealth AXiS Surgical Mazor X is indicated for The StealthStation System is
System is intended for precise precise positioning of intended as an aid for precisely
positioning of surgical surgical instruments or locating anatomical structures
instruments and as an aid for spinal implants during in either open, minimally
precisely locating anatomical general spinal surgery. It may invasive, or percutaneous
structures in open, minimally be used in open or minimally procedures.
invasive, and percutaneous invasive or percutaneous
procedures. procedures. The StealthStation System is
indicated for any medical
The Stealth AXiS Surgical Mazor X 3D imaging condition in which the use of
System is indicated for medical capabilities provide stereotactic surgery may be
conditions in which the use of processing and conversion of appropriate, and where
K253381, Page 3 of 9.Technological Stealth AXiS Surgical System – Mazor X Stealth Edition – Stealth Station S8 – Platform
Characteristic Platform & Accessories Platform & Accessories & Accessories
(Subject) (K251316 (K162309)
(Primary Predicate) (Secondary Predicate)
stereotactic surgery may be 2D fluoroscopic projections reference to a rigid anatomical
appropriate, and where from standard C-Arm into structure, such as the skull, a
reference to a rigid anatomical volumetric 3D image. It is long bone, or vertebra, can be
structure, such as the vertebra, intended to be used identified relative to a CT or MR
can be identified relative to a CT whenever the clinician based model, fluoroscopy
or MR based model, fluoroscopy and/or patient benefit from images, or digitized landmarks
images, or digitized landmarks generated 3D images of high of the anatomy.
of the anatomy. contrast objects.
The Stealth AXiS Surgical Mazor X navigation tracks the
System is indicated for precise position of instruments,
robotic positioning of surgical during spinal surgery, in
instruments or implants during relation to the surgical
orthopedic or neurosurgery. It anatomy and identifies this
may be used in open, minimally position on diagnostic or
invasive, and percutaneous intraoperative images of a
procedures. patient.
Anatomical Sites Spine Spine Cranial, Spine and ENT
Mechanism of Computer assisted Stereotaxy: Computer assisted Computer assisted Stereotaxy:
Action Instrument position and Stereotaxy: Instrument Instrument position and
trajectory calculation based on position and trajectory trajectory calculation based on
image data & instrument calculation based on image image data & instrument
tracking based on optical, data & instrument tracking tracking based on optical and
electromagnetic, and hybrid based on optical navigation. electromagnetic navigation.
navigation.
Motorized positioning of the
Motorized positioning of the Surgical Arm with tool guide
Surgical Arm with tool guide through 6 axes.
through 7 axes.
System • Workstation Cart • Workstation • Workstation Cart
• Camera Cart • Surgical System 3Define • Camera Cart
• Autopilot (Robotic Cart + Camera: SR300 model • Planning Station
Robotic Arm + RIST, • Bed Mounted Unit (e.g., • Device accessories
including the 3D camera) Bed Frame)
• Planning Station • Mazor X Navigation
• Device Accessories Camera and accessories
• Device accessories for
spine application
Optical Technology Manufacturer: NDI Manufacturer: NDI Manufacturer: NDI
Localizer: Vega VT Localizer: Vega ST Localizer: Vega XT
Electromagnetic Manufacturer: Identical Manufacturer: Identical
Technology (Medtronic Navigation, Inc.) (Medtronic Navigation, Inc.)
Localizer: AxiEM III Localizer: AxiEM III
Emitter Types: Side Emitter Types: Side, Flat
K253381, Page 4 of 9.Table 2. Stealth AXiS Spine Clinical Application Substantial Equivalence Comparison
Technological Stealth AXiS Surgical System – Mazor X Software v5.2 StealthStation S8 Spine
Characteristic Platform & Accessories (K251316 Software v2.1
(Subject) (Primary Predicate) (K162309)
(Secondary Predicate)
Product Code OLO OLO, LLZ OLO
Regulation Number 882.4560 882.4560 882.4560
Intended Use The Stealth AXiS Surgical System, Mazor X is indicated for The StealthStation
with the Stealth AXiS Spine clinical precise positioning of System, with
application, is intended for precise surgical instruments or StealthStation Spine
positioning of surgical instruments spinal implants during Software, is intended as
and as an aid for precisely locating general spinal surgery. It an aid for precisely
anatomical structures in open, may be used in open or locating anatomical
minimally invasive, and minimally invasive or structures in either open
percutaneous procedures. percutaneous or percutaneous
procedures. neurosurgical and
orthopedic procedures.
Indications for Use The Stealth AXiS Surgical System, Mazor X is indicated for The StealthStation
with the Stealth AXiS Spine clinical precise positioning of System, with
application, is intended for precise surgical instruments or StealthStation Spine
positioning of surgical instruments spinal implants during Software, is intended as
and as an aid for precisely locating general spinal surgery. It an aid for precisely
anatomical structures in open, may be used in open or locating anatomical
minimally invasive, and minimally invasive or structures in either open
percutaneous procedures. Their percutaneous or percutaneous
use is indicated for medical procedures. neurosurgical and
conditions in which the use of orthopedic procedures in
stereotactic surgery may be Mazor X 3D imaging adult and skeletally
appropriate, and where reference capabilities provide mature pediatric
to a rigid anatomical structure, processing and (adolescent) patients.
such as the spine or pelvis, can be conversion of 2D
identified relative to images of the fluoroscopic projections Their use is indicated for
anatomy. from standard C-arms any medical condition in
into a volumetric 3D which the use of
This can include procedures in image. It is intended to stereotactic surgery may
adult patients, such as: be used whenever the be appropriate, and
• Interbody device placement clinician and/or patient where reference to a rigid
• Pedicle screw placement benefit from generated anatomical structure,
3D images of high such as the spine, can be
• Iliosacral screw placement
contrast objects. identified relative to
This can include the following images of the anatomy.
Mazor X navigation
spinal implant procedure in
tracks the position of This can include the
skeletally mature pediatric
instruments, during following spinal implant
(adolescent) patients:
spinal surgery, in relation procedures in adult
• Pedicle screw placement
to the surgical anatomy patients, such as:
and identifies this
K253381, Page 5 of 9.Technological Stealth AXiS Surgical System – Mazor X Software v5.2 StealthStation S8 Spine
Characteristic Platform & Accessories (K251316 Software v2.1
(Subject) (Primary Predicate) (K162309)
(Secondary Predicate)
position on diagnostic or • Pedicle Screw
intraoperative images of Placement
a patient. • Iliosacral Screw
Placement
• Interbody Device
Placement
This can include the
following spinal implant
procedures in skeletally
mature pediatric
(adolescent) patients:
• Pedicle Screw
Placement
Stealth AXiS Optical (infra-red) Optical (infra-red) Optical (infra-red)
Operating Principle Hybrid (Optical + EM)
(Tracking Method)
System Accuracy Under representative worst-case Mazor X System mean Under representative
Requirements Configuration, the Stealth AXiS accuracy <1.5mm worst-case
System has demonstrated Configuration, the
performance in 3D positional Navigation Accuracy StealthStation S8 Spine
accuracy with a mean positional mean positional error software v2.1, has
error of ≤ 2.0 mm and mean <2mm and mean demonstrated
trajectory error of ≤ 2 degrees. trajectory error of 2°. performance in 3D
positional accuracy with
Mazor X will also provide
a mean positional error of
Facet Decortication
≤ 2.0 mm and mean
depth accuracy within
trajectory error of ≤ 2
1.5mm.
degrees.
Target Patient Adult and Skeletally Mature Orthopedic Patients Adult and Skeletally
Population Pediatric (Adolescent) Orthopedic Mature Pediatric
Patients (Adolescent) Orthopedic
Patients
Imaging Modalities CT and Fluoro based imaging CT and Fluoro based X-Ray Based Imaging
X-ray based imaging imaging
X-ray based imaging
(Planning)
Registration -3D-to-Fluoro Registration -CT-Fluoro Merge -PointMerge Registration
Features -Automatic 3D Image Registration Registration -SurfaceMerge
(Automatic O-arm Registration) - Automatic 3D Image Registration
-Segmental Tracking Registration (Scan and -FluoroMerge
Plan, Automatic Registration
Registration) -Automatic 2D Image --
Registration
K253381, Page 6 of 9.Technological Stealth AXiS Surgical System – Mazor X Software v5.2 StealthStation S8 Spine
Characteristic Platform & Accessories (K251316 Software v2.1
(Subject) (Primary Predicate) (K162309)
(Secondary Predicate)
-Automatic 3D Image
Registration
-StealthAiR Spine
Automatic Registration
Spine Manual Manual
Segmentation Automatic Automatic
Planning -Plan Entry and Target Selection - Plan Entry and Target -Plan Entry and Target
Features -3D Model Building Selection Selection
- 3D Model Building -3D Model Building
Medical - O-arm Imaging System - O-arm Imaging System -O-arm Imaging System
Device - 2D C-Arm - 2D C-Arm -Ziehm Vision FD Vario
Interfaces - 3D C-Arm - 3D C-Arm 3D C-Arm
-ISO-C 3D C-Arm
-Ziehm Vision RFD 3D C-
arm
-Orbic 3D C-Arm
View/Display -Look Sideways -Look Sideways -Look Sideways
Features -3D -3D -3D
-Anatomic Orthogonal -Trajectory 1 and 2 -Anatomic Orthogonal
-Trajectory 1 and 2 Trajectory Guidance -Trajectory 1 and 2
-Trajectory Guidance -Camera Mode Trajectory Guidance
-Look Ahead -AP and Lateral -Look Ahead
-Probe’s Eye -Synthetic AP and -Probe’s Eye
-AP and Lateral Lateral -AP and Lateral
-Maximum Intensity Projection -Maximum Intensity -Synthetic AP and Lateral
-Video Input Projection -Maximum Intensity
Projection
-Video Input
Robotic Control Trajectory Guidance Trajectory Guidance
XI. Discussion of Nonclinical Testing:
The testing conducted on the Stealth AXiS Surgical System with Stealth AXiS Spine clinical
application included:
• Under representative worst-case configuration, the Stealth AXiS Surgical System
with Stealth AXiS Spine clinical application has demonstrated performance in 3D
positional accuracy with a mean error ≤ 2.0 mm and in trajectory angle accuracy with
a mean error of ≤ 2.0 degrees.
• Platform and software verification and validation testing verified the product
requirements are met, and the device performs as intended.
• Hardware verification and validation testing verified the product requirements are
met, and the hardware performs as intended.
K253381, Page 7 of 9.• Summative usability validation was performed by representative users in a simulated
clinical environment (cadaver). The summative evaluations demonstrated the
Stealth AXiS Surgical System with Stealth AXiS Spine clinical application for the
intended user, uses, and use environments.
• Electrical Emissions and Immunity 4th edition testing provided confirmation that the
Stealth AXiS Surgical System platform conforms to AAMI ES60601-
1:2005/AMD1:2012, AAMI ES60601;1:2005/AMD2:2021 – Medical Electrical
Equipment – Part 1: General Requirements for Basic Safety and Essential
Performance (IEC 60601-1:2005 + AMD1:2012 + AMD2:2020).
• Electrical, Mechanical, and Thermal Safety testing confirmed that the Stealth AXiS
Surgical System platform conforms to IEC 60601-1-2:2014+ A1:2020 – Medical
Electrical Equipment – Part 1-2: General Requirements for Safety; Electromagnetic
Compatibility – Requirements and Tests.
XII. Discussion of Clinical Testing:
A retrospective clinical evaluation of published literature was performed on the
StealthStation Navigation System and Mazor System for use in the skeletally mature
pediatric (adolescent) patient population.
XIII. AI-enabled Device Summary
Automatic Planning
The auto-planning feature in the Stealth AXiS Spine clinical application uses Artificial
Intelligence (AI) to automate pedicle screw placement for spinal surgeries, providing patient-
specific recommendations for select Medtronic screw types. Clinical users retain full control
to review, modify, or override AI-generated plans before approval.
This feature employs a Siamese Neural Network to compare candidate screw placements to
expert standards, using inputs from deep learning-based spine segmentation and rule-based
spinal features algorithms. Training data consisted of expert screw placements from Surgical
Support Technicians, enabling the model to identify solutions closely aligned with expert
decisions.
For validation, test data was strictly separated from training data by site and included scans
stratified by surgical approach and vertebra. The model outputs screw placement that would
be most similar to the expert’s screw placements, aiding user evaluation, while final
decisions remain with the clinician.
The AI model is locked and does not update after deployment.
Automatic Spine Segmentation
The Automatic Spine Segmentation feature in the Stealth AXiS Spine clinical application uses
deep learning AI to automatically segment vertebrae from CT and CBCT (O-arm) images,
supporting planning and guidance for spine surgery. Users review and can modify AI-
generated segmentations to maintain clinical control in the application.
K253381, Page 8 of 9.This locked UNet-based model distinguishes vertebrae in 3D images, with its vertebral
segmentation dependent on image quality and then user verification. The network was
trained and validated using internal and public datasets. employing patch-wise training and
early stopping to prevent overfitting.
Model performance and verification and validation test data was separated from training
data. The model performance was evaluated by comparing the AI-generated segmentations
to clinician-reviewed ground truth, ensuring statistical confidence.
The model is locked and does not update after deployment.
XIV. Conclusion:
The Stealth AXiS Surgical System with Stealth AXiS Spine clinical application has been shown
through comparison, testing, and clinical literature to be substantially equivalent to the
identified primary and secondary predicates.
K253381, Page 9 of 9.