Ever Fortune.AI, Co., Ltd.
Ti-Hao Wang
Chief Technology Officer
8F., No.360, Sec. 1, Jingmao Rd., Beitun Dist.
Taichung City, 406040
Taiwan
April 22, 2026
Re: K253163
Trade/Device Name: Efai Ersuite CT Appendicitis Assesment System (APPEN-CT-100)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2080
Regulation Name: Radiological Computer Aided Triage And Notification Software
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QAS
Dated: March 19, 2026
Received: March 19, 2026
Dear Ti-Hao Wang:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.05
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK253163 - Ti-Hao Wang Page 2
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K253163 - Ti-Hao Wang Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D
Assistant Director
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureI
Indications for Use
Please type in the marketing application/submission number, if it is known. This K253163
?
textbox will be left blank for original applications/submissions.
Please provide the device trade name(s).
EFAI ERSUITE CT APPENDICITIS ASSESSMENT SYSTEM (APPEN-CT-100)
Please provide your Indications for Use below.
EFAI ERSUITE CT APPENDICITIS ASSESSMENT SYSTEM (EFAI APPENDICITIS) is a radiological
computer aided triage and notification software indicated for use in the analysis of contrast-enhanced
abdominal CT images. The device is intended to assist hospital networks and trained clinicians in workflow
triage by flagging and communication of suspected positive findings of appendicitis.
EFAI APPENDICITIS uses an artificial intelligence algorithm to analyze images and highlight cases with
detected findings in parallel to the ongoing standard of care image interpretation. The user is presented with
notifications for cases with suspected findings. The device does not alter the original medical image and is
not intended to be used as a diagnostic device.
The results of EFAI APPENDICITIS are intended to be used in conjunction with other patient information
and based on their professional judgment, to assist with triage/prioritization of medical images. Notified
clinicians are responsible for viewing full images per the standard of care.
I
Please select the types of uses (select one or both, as Z Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D)
applicable).
D Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)K253163
510(k) Summary
1. General Information
510(k) Sponsor Ever Fortune.AI Co., Ltd.
Address 8F., No.360, Sec. 1, Jingmao Rd.,
Beitun Dist.,
Taichung City 406040,
Taiwan
Applicant Joseph Chang
Contact Information 886-04-23213838 #216
joseph.chang@everfortune.ai
Correspondence Person Ti-Hao Wang
Contact Information 886-04-23213838 #168
thothwang@gmail.com
tihao.wang@everfortune.ai
Date Prepared April 22, 2026
2. Proposed Device
Proprietary Name EFAI ERSUITE CT APPENDICITIS ASSESSMENT SYSTEM
(APPEN-CT-100 )
Common Name EFAI APPENDICITIS
Classification Name Radiological computer-assisted triage and notification software
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.2080
Product Code QAS
Regulatory Class II
3. Predicate Device
Proprietary Name BriefCase
Premarket Notification K193298
Classification Name Radiological computer-assisted triage and notification software
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.2080
Product Code QAS
Regulatory Class II
EFAI APPENDICITIS Traditional 510(k)
14. Device Description
EFAI ERSUITE CT APPENDICITIS ASSESSMENT SYSTEM (EFAI APPENDICITIS) is a
radiological computer-assisted triage and notification software system. The software uses deep
learning techniques to automatically analyze contrast-enhanced abdominal computed
tomography (CT) and alerts the PACS/RIS workstation once images with features suggestive of
appendicitis are identified.
Through the use of EFAI APPENDICITIS, a trained clinician is able to review studies with
features suggestive of appendicitis earlier than in standard of care workflow.
The device is intended to provide a passive notification through the PACS/workstation to the
trained clinicians indicating the existence of a case that may potentially benefit from the
prioritization. It does not mark, highlight, or direct users’ attention to a specific location on the
original contrast-enhanced abdominal CT. The device aims to aid in prioritization and triage of
radiological medical images only.
5. Intended Use / Indications for Use
EFAI ERSUITE CT APPENDICITIS ASSESSMENT SYSTEM (EFAI APPENDICITIS) is a
radiological computer aided triage and notification software indicated for use in the analysis of
contrast-enhanced abdominal CT images. The device is intended to assist hospital networks and
trained clinicians in workflow triage by flagging and communication of suspected positive
findings of appendicitis.
EFAI APPENDICITIS uses an artificial intelligence algorithm to analyze images and highlight
cases with detected findings in parallel to the ongoing standard of care image interpretation. The
user is presented with notifications for cases with suspected findings. The device does not alter
the original medical image and is not intended to be used as a diagnostic device.
The results of EFAI APPENDICITIS are intended to be used in conjunction with other patient
information and based on their professional judgment, to assist with triage/prioritization of
medical images. Notified clinicians are responsible for viewing full images per the standard of
care.
EFAI APPENDICITIS Traditional 510(k)
26. Comparison of Technological Characteristics with Predicate Device
The subject device EFAI APPENDICITIS and the predicate BriefCase for IFG triage (K193298)
are AI-based radiological triage and notification software intended for use with CT scanners,
PACS, and radiology workstations. Both accept abdominal CT images as input, apply AI
algorithms to identify suspected positive findings, and generate case-level notifications to
clinicians.
The subject device processes contrast-enhanced abdominal CT images and is designed to detect
appendicitis. The predicate device processes abdominal CT images without restriction on
contrast use and is designed to detect Intra-abdominal Free Gas (IFG).
In terms of output, the predicate provides notifications containing compressed preview images,
whereas the subject device provides text-based notifications without images. Both devices
operate in parallel to the standard of care workflow, do not alter or annotate the original medical
images, and do not remove or reprioritize cases from the reading queue.
A table comparing the key features of the subject device and predicate devices is provided below.
Predicate Device:
Feature/ Proposed Device:
BriefCase
Function EFAI APPENDICITIS
(K193298)
EFAI ERSUITE CT APPENDICITIS BriefCase is a radiological computer
ASSESSMENT SYSTEM (EFAI aided triage and notification software
APPENDICITIS) is a radiological indicated for use in the analysis of
computer aided triage and notification abdominal CT images. The device is
software indicated for use in the intended to assist hospital networks
analysis of contrast-enhanced and trained radiologists in workflow
abdominal CT images. The device is triage by flagging and communication
intended to assist hospital networks of suspected positive findings of
and trained clinicians in workflow Intra-abdominal free gas (IFG)
triage by flagging and communication pathologies. BriefCase uses an
of suspected positive findings of artificial intelligence algorithm to
Intended appendicitis . analyze images and highlight cases
Use/Indication with detected findings on a standalone
for Use desktop application in parallel to the
EFAI APPENDICITIS uses an
ongoing standard of care image
artificial intelligence algorithm to
interpretation. The user is presented
analyze images and highlight cases
with notifications for cases with
with detected findings in parallel to
suspected findings. Notifications
the ongoing standard of care image
include compressed preview images
interpretation. The user is presented
that are meant for informational
with notifications for cases with
purposes only and not intended for
suspected findings. The device does
diagnostic use beyond notification.
not alter the original medical image
The device does not alter the original
and is not intended to be used as a
medical image and is not intended to
diagnostic device.
be used as a diagnostic device. The
EFAI APPENDICITIS Traditional 510(k)
3results of BriefCase are intended to be
The results of EFAI APPENDICITIS used in conjunction with other patient
are intended to be used in conjunction information and based on their
with other patient information and professional judgment, to assist with
based on their professional judgment, triage/prioritization of medical images.
to assist with triage/prioritization of Notified clinicians are responsible for
medical images. Notified clinicians viewing full images per the standard
of care.
are responsible for viewing full
images per the standard of care.
User Population Trained clinician Trained radiologist
Anatomical
Region of Abdomen Abdomen
Interest
Data
Acquisition Contrast-enhanced abdominal CT Abdominal CT scan
Protocol
Images
DICOM DICOM
Format
Interference
No. No cases are removed from No. No cases are removed from
with Standard
Worklist or deprioritized. desktop app or deprioritized.
Workflow
Artificial intelligence algorithm with Artificial intelligence algorithm with
Algorithm
database of images. database of images.
View DICOM DICOM Information about the patient,
No
data study and current image
No; device does not mark, annotate, or No; device does not mark, annotate, or
Segmentation of
direct users’ attention to a specific direct users’ attention to a specific
region of interest
location in the original image location in the original image
Notification/Prior
Yes Yes
itization
Presentation of a small, compressed,
black and white preview image that is
labeled “Not for diagnostic use”; The
Preview images No
device operates in parallel with the
standard of care, which remains the
default option for all cases.
Alteration of
No No
original image
EFAI APPENDICITIS Traditional 510(k)
4Removal of cases
from worklist No No
queue
7. Performance Data
Performance of the EFAI APPENDICITIS has been evaluated and verified in accordance with
software specifications and applicable performance standards through software verification and
validation testing. Additionally, the software validation activities were performed in accordance
with IEC 62304:2006/A1:2015 - Medical device software – Software life cycle processes, in
addition to the FDA Guidance documents, “Content of Premarket Submissions for Device
Software Functions” and “Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality System Considerations and
Content of Premarket Submissions.”
Ever Fortune.AI conducted a retrospective, blinded, multisite validation study of the proposed
device, EFAI APPENDICITIS, using pre-specified primary and secondary endpoints with
corresponding performance goals.
The study evaluated 300 consecutively collected contrast-enhanced abdominal CT cases from
multiple U.S. clinical sites, with one case per patient. None of these cases were used in model
development or internal testing. The appendicitis status of each case was independently assessed
by three U.S. board-certified radiologists, with the reference standard (ground truth) determined
by majority agreement, yielding 139 positive and 161 negative cases. The primary endpoints
were sensitivity and specificity, each with a performance goal of 0.8.
EFAI APPENDICITIS demonstrated sensitivity of 0.928 (95% CI: 0.873–0.960) and specificity
of 0.932 (95% CI: 0.882–0.961), exceeding the performance goals and showing substantial
equivalence to the predicate device, with sensitivity of 0.910 (95% CI: 0.815–0.967) and
specificity of 0.889 (95% CI: 0.817–0.940). The secondary endpoint, mean system processing
time per case, was 3.37 minutes (95% CI: 3.34–3.40), which was significantly less than the
pre-specified goal.
Moreover, subgroup analyses across sex, age, race/ethnicity, CT manufacturer, and CT slice
thickness showed consistent performance, underscoring reliability across diverse populations and
imaging conditions. Additional evaluations in cases with different levels of appendiceal
thickening and other potential confounding factors (e.g., appendiceal findings, inflammatory or
infectious conditions, suboptimal image quality issues, diverticulitis, urinary findings,
gynecological findings, vascular or ischemic conditions, fluid collections, neoplastic or
metastatic lesions, and postoperative findings) were also conducted accordingly.
In conclusion, the results demonstrate that EFAI APPENDICITIS is substantially equivalent to
the predicate device.
EFAI APPENDICITIS Traditional 510(k)
5EFAI APPENDICITIS has been designed, verified and validated in compliance with 21 CFR,
Part 820.30 requirements. The device has been designed to meet the requirements associated
with ISO 14971:2019 Medical devices — Application of risk management to medical devices.
The EFAI APPENDICITIS performance has been validated using retrospective data from case
data and through the use of Reader comparison analysis.
8. Substantial Equivalence
The indications for use statement for the subject device, EFAI APPENDICITIS, is substantially
similar to the cleared indications for use statement for BriefCase (K193298). Both the subject
and predicate devices are radiological computer-aided triage and notification software intended
to assist hospital networks in workflow triage by flagging and communicating suspected positive
findings based on abdominal CT images. Although the clinical findings differ and there is
variation in contrast use, both devices analyze the same abdominal CT region, and these
differences do not impact the underlying technology or raise new performance concerns.
Both devices target the same user population, focus on the abdomen as the anatomical region of
interest, utilize abdominal CT as the data acquisition protocol, support notifications as a parallel
workflow tool, and use DICOM format for images. They also employ similar artificial
intelligence algorithms for analyzing images. Both operate in parallel to the standard of care
workflow, meaning they do not change the original images, do not provide any markings on the
images, and do not remove or reprioritize cases from the standard queue.
The EFAI APPENDICITIS has minor technical differences compared to the predicate device.
The predicate device provides preview images within their notification while the proposed
device provides notification as a text based JSON file. This difference does not change the
fundamental technology of the device, which is the use of AI algorithms to process images and
generate case-level notifications for triage purposes. These differences do not raise new
questions of safety or effectiveness compared to the predicate.
9. Conclusion
Based on the information submitted in this premarket notification, and based on the indications
for use, technological characteristics, and performance testing, the EFAI APPENDICITIS is
substantially equivalent to the predicate device in terms of safety, efficacy, and performance.
EFAI APPENDICITIS Traditional 510(k)
6