May 14, 2026
Subtle Medical, Inc.
Adam Heroux
Consultant
883 Santa Cruz Ave.
Suite 205
Menlo Park, California 94025
Re: K254013
Trade/Device Name: SubtleHD-PET (1.x)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: LLZ
Dated: April 13, 2026
Received: April 13, 2026
Dear Adam Heroux:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK254013 - Adam Heroux Page 2
FDA's substantial equivalence determination also included the review and clearance of your Predetermined
Change Control Plan (PCCP). Under section 515C(b)(1) of the Act, a new premarket notification is not
required for a change to a device cleared under section 510(k) of the Act, if such change is consistent with an
established PCCP granted pursuant to section 515C(b)(2) of the Act. Under 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3), a new
premarket notification is required if there is a major change or modification in the intended use of a device,
or if there is a change or modification in a device that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of
the device, e.g., a significant change or modification in design, material, chemical composition, energy
source, or manufacturing process. Accordingly, if deviations from the established PCCP result in a major
change or modification in the intended use of the device, or result in a change or modification in the device
that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, then a new premarket notification
would be required consistent with section 515C(b)(1) of the Act and 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3). Failure to submit
such a premarket submission would constitute adulteration and misbranding under sections 501(f)(1)(B) and
502(o) of the Act, respectively.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on theseK254013 - Adam Heroux Page 3
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Daniel M. Krainak, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
DHT8C: Division of Radiological
Imaging and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureI
Indications for Use
Please type in the marketing application/submission number, if it is known. This K254013
?
textbox will be left blank for original applications/submissions.
Please provide the device trade name(s).
ISubtleHD-PET
(1.x)
Please provide your Indications for Use below.
SubtleHD-PET is an image processing software intended for noise reduction of PET images (including PET/
CT and PET/MR) obtained with any kind of radiotracer (e.g. 18F-FDG).
I ZPrescription
Please select the types of uses (select one or both, as Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart D)
applicable). S]Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)SubtleHD-PET 510(k) Summary K254013
Table 1. Contact Details and Device Name
Date Summary Prepared: 13 April 2026
Contact Details:
Company Name: Subtle Medical, Inc.
Company Address: 883 Santa Cruz Ave, Suite 205
Menlo Park, CA 94025 United States
Applicant Name: Mr Ajit Shankaranarayanan
Application Telephone: 650-448-4285
Applicant Email: ajit@subtlemedical.com
Device Name:
Device Trade Name SubtleHD-PET (1.x)
Common Name: Medical image management and processing system
Classification Name: System, Image Processing, Radiological
Regulation Number: 892.2050
Product Code: LLZ
Device Class: Class II
Legally Marketed Predicate Primary Predicate #: K213140
Devices: Primary Predicate Name: Claritas iPET
Primary Predicate Legal Manufacturer: Claritas
Healthtech Pte, Ltd.
Secondary Predicate #: K211964
Secondary Predicate Name: SubtlePET
Secondary Predicate Legal Manufacturer: Subtle
Medical, Inc.
Device Description Summary
SubtleHD-PET is an AI/ML radiological image processing Software as a Medical Device
(SaMD). SubtleHD-PET uses deep learning algorithms to enhance medical images acquired by
PET scanners to reduce image noise. As it only processes images for the end user, the device
has no user interface. SubtleHD-PET is intended to be operated by radiologists, nuclear
medicine physicians, and technologists at an imaging center, clinic, or hospital through an
Medical Device Data System (MDDS) to prepare and send input DICOM images and retrieveoutput DICOM images. SubtleHD-PET does not have a user interface or interact with the PET
scanner. The SubtleHD-PET software can be used with PET images acquired as part of
standard-of-care and accelerated PET exams as the input. SubtleHD-PET has two models:
PET/CT model which takes the PET and CT DICOMs (from PET/CT) as the input and PET-only
model which takes the PET DICOMs (from PET/MR or PET/CT) only as the input. The outputs
are the corresponding images with enhanced image quality. Original DICOM images are passed
onto the SubtleHD-PET software as an input argument and the enhanced images are saved in
the designated location prescribed when running the SubtleHD-PET software.
The SubtleHD-PET software implements an image enhancement algorithm using a
convolutional neural network. Input images are enhanced by running through the CNN that
consists of cascaded layers to perform numerical operations, including convolutional filtering,
linear combination, and nonlinearity operations.
Intended Use / Indications for Use
SubtleHD-PET is an image processing software intended for noise reduction of PET images
(including PET/CT and PET/MR) obtained with any kind of radiotracer (e.g. 18F-FDG).
Intended Use / Indications for Use Comparison
SubtleHD-PET and its predicates are all intended to denoise PET images of various input
protocols, imaging scanners, and radiotracers.
Technological Comparison
SubtleHD-PET and its predicates are all used for image enhancement. They operate on DICOM
files, enhance the images, and send the enhanced images to any desired destination. The
receipt of original DICOM image files and delivery of enhanced images as DICOM files depends
on other software systems. Both subject and predicate devices use convolutional neural
network based filtering. Original images are enhanced by running through a cascade of filter
banks, where thresholding and scaling operations are applied. The software performs noise
reduction. Additional pre- and post-processing is applied to configure desired perceived image
quality. The following table provides a detailed description of the technological characteristics of
subject and predicate devices.
SubtleHD-PET v1.x is classified as Class II with product code LLZ through the FDA using
Claritas iPET and SubtlePET as predicates. Below is a preliminary comparison of
SubtleHD-PET and the predicates.Table 2. Comparison of Technological Characteristics
Comparison SubtleHD-PET v1.x Claritas iPET (Predicate) SubtlePET v2.x Noted Differences
(Subject Device) (K213140) (Predicate) (K211964)
Indications SubtleHD-PET is an image Claritas iPET is an image SubtlePET is an image Claritas iPET has
for Use processing software processing software processing software sharpening and
intended for noise intended for use by intended for use by resolution
reduction of PET images radiologists and nuclear radiologists and nuclear enhancement.
(including PET/CT and medicine physicians for medicine physicians for
PET/MR) obtained with any noise reduction, transfer, storage, and SubtleHD-PET v1.x
kind of radiotracer (e.g. sharpening, and resolution noise reduction of claims any
fluorodeoxyglucose improvement of PET fluorodeoxyglucose radiotracer, similar
(FDG)). images (including PET/CT (FDG), amyloid, to Claritas iPET
and PET/MRI) obtained 18F-DOPA, rather than listing
with any kind of 18F-DCFPyL, Ga-68 the radiotracers like
radionuclides, e.g. Dotatate, and Ga-68 SubtlePET v2.x.
fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG). PSMA radiotracer PET
images. Subject and
Enhanced images will be predicate devices
saved in DICOM files and are both image
exist in conjunction with enhancement
original images. algorithms for
denoising.
Substantially
equivalent.
Intended Use Image enhancement Same Same Same
system which is an image
processing software for
image enhancement of
PET images including
PET/CT and PET/MRI.
Workflow The software operates on Same in case of the PACS Same Claritas iPET has a
DICOM files, enhances the integrated version. user interface for
images, and sends the their stand-alone
enhanced images to any The stand-alone version version.
desired destination with an can input the slices of the
AE Title (e.g., PACS, PET PET, MR or CT scans as Substantially
device, workstation, and DICOM files, interactively equivalent.
more). Enhanced images visualizes the input and the
coexist with the original output data, and saves the
images. enhanced volume in
DICOM files.
Product LLZ LLZ KPS, LLZ Same
Code
Physical Software package that Software package that Software package that Same
Characteristi operates on off-the-shelf operates on a virtual operates on
cs hardware machine (VM) or deployed off-the-shelf hardware
on a local computer.
Intended Radiologists and nuclear Same Same Same
User medicine physiciansComparison SubtleHD-PET v1.x Claritas iPET (Predicate) SubtlePET v2.x Noted Differences
(Subject Device) (K213140) (Predicate) (K211964)
Intended Medical facility (hospitals, Same in case of the PACS Medical facility Same
Location clinics, imaging center, integrated version. The (hospitals, clinics,
etc.) stand-alone version runs on imaging center, etc.)
the client computer.
Modalities Multi-modality; specifically Same Same Same
processes PET, PET/CT
and PET/MR images
Input(s) Requires either (1) PET Processes PET DICOM Processes PET DICOM SubtlePET only
and CT DICOM series from from either PET/MR or from either PET/MR or processed the PET
PET/CT scanner, (2) PET PET/CT. PET/CT. DICOM series from
DICOM series from only PET/CT scanner.
PET or PET/MR scanner SubtleHD-PET
uses input from the
PET and CT
DICOM series to
process from a
PET/CT scanner.
Substantially
equivalent.
Operating Linux Windows/Linux Linux Same
System /
Computer
Rx or OTC Rx Same Same Same
User None None - when integrated into None Claritas iPET has a
Interface existing PACS user interface for
workstations, viewed on their stand-alone
existing PACS workstation. version.
A user interface for Substantially
stand-alone version equivalent.
visualizing 2D slices and
3D rendering for demo and
research purposes.
DICOM The software processes Same Same Same
Standard DICOM compliant image
Compliance dataComparison SubtleHD-PET v1.x Claritas iPET (Predicate) SubtlePET v2.x Noted Differences
(Subject Device) (K213140) (Predicate) (K211964)
Image The software employs 2 The image enhancement The software employs a Subject and
Enhancemen different convolutional algorithm is a modification convolutional neural predicate devices
t Algorithm neural network models in a of the non-local means network-based method use image
Description pixel’s neighborhood to algorithm where the filtering in a pixel’s enhancement
compute the value for each weights can be obtained neighborhood to algorithms as their
pixel. One model uses both from higher resolution and generate the value for core technology.
PET and CT as model lower noise voxel arrays each pixel. Using a
inputs if PET and CT obtained with other residual learning Substantially
images are available. The modalities, i.e. CT or MR. approach, the software equivalent.
other model uses PET as The resolution of the target predicts the noise
the only model input if CT is at least the maximum of components and
image is not available. The the combined modalities, structural components.
software predicts the noise but may be higher. The software separates
components and structural these components,
components in PET which enhances the
images. The software structure while
separates these simultaneously reducing
components, which the noise
enhances the structure
while simultaneously
reducing the noise.
Model Two Models: PET-CT Unknown One Model: PET model SubtleHD-PET has
Architecture model, PET-only model two models while
SubtlePET only
had one model.
Subject and
predicate devices
use PET DICOMS
as the model
architecture.
Substantially
equivalent.
Predetermined Change Control Plan (PCCP)
SubtleHD-PET has a Predetermined Change Control Plan (PCCP), which details planned
device modifications, the associated methodology to develop, validate, and implement those
modifications, and an assessment of the impact of those modifications. In general, Subtle
Medical utilizes PCCPs for planned modifications that aim to improve customer satisfaction with
respect to perceived image quality, generalizability, and flexibility of the product.
The SubtleHD-PET PCCP plans for changes to add additional denoising mix factor levels to
allow for configuration that best fits each user’s perceived image quality preferences.
Additionally, SubtleHD-PET plans for changes to add additional data to the performance and
training datasets for generalizability. This includes additional ages, scanner vendors/models,
anatomies, detector types, and radiotracers.These modifications shall be performed as a part of Subtle Medical’s Design Change Control
process in a Quality Management System that is ISO 13485:2016 and MDSAP certified. It shall
be accompanied by a software version-specific Customer Release Notes describing the change
along with software version-specific Instructions for Use (IFU). The updated labeling shall be
delivered to users by Subtle Medical customer success personnel.
Non-Clinical and/or Clinical Tests Summary & Conclusions
Subtle Medical conducted the following performance testing:
● Software Verification and Validation testing (unit, integration, and system testing) to
demonstrate that software requirements are implemented. These tests passed.
● Performance Validation testing utilizing retrospective clinical data to demonstrate the
software enhanced image quality in PET images via a reduction of noise. These tests
passed.
● A Reader Study utilizing retrospective clinical data to demonstrate the software
enhanced image quality in PET images via a reduction of noise. These tests passed.
Performance Validation & Reader Study Dataset Characteristics:
To represent the patient population and use of PET in the field, the SubtleHD-PET performance
and reader study validation test dataset consists of:
● Brain and Whole Body anatomical regions.
○ PET Only Model: Brain (29%), Whole Body (71%)
○ PET/CT Model: Brain (20%), Whole Body (80%)
● BGO, LBS, LSO, LYSO, and SiPM detector types.
● 18F-Choline, 18F-DCFPyL, 18F-DOPA, 18F-FDG, 18F-Florbetaben, 18F-Florbetapir,
68Ga-Dotatate, 18F-Flutemetamol, and 68Ga-PSMA radiotracers.
● For 18F-FDG, at least 20% of the dataset has a high Body Mass Index (BMI) (>= 30).
● GE, Philips, Siemens, and United Imaging Healthcare imaging scanner vendors.
○ PET Only Model: GE (54%), Philips (7%), Siemens (24%), and United Imaging
Healthcare (15%)
○ PET/CT Model: GE (54%), Philips (7%), Siemens (14%), and United Imaging
Healthcare (25%)
● Pediatric and Adult subject ages (ranging from 2 to 88 years old).
○ PET Only Model: 87% Adult, 13% Pediatric
○ PET/CT Model: 85% Adult, 15% Pediatric
● Subject sex.
○ PET Only Model: 43% Male
○ PET/CT Model: 48% Male
● Standard-of-care PET data and Low-count PET data from accelerated scans (25%-90%
acceleration equating to 10%-75% count PET data).
Various clinical conditions are present in the performance dataset, as per reports accompanying
the images from the sources, including: Cancer Follow-Up, Cardiomyopathy, Epilepsy, H&NCancer, Lymphoma, and Seizure. This selection criteria represents a well characterized
clinically-relevant reference dataset.
To show the performance of the device was not hindered by site variability, in the validation
dataset, data was selected from sources not included in the training dataset. The majority of
performance data comes from sources in the United States. Independence between the training
and test datasets was ensured by using non-overlapping datasets, with no shared subjects,
studies, or images between training and testing.
Even though all the primary endpoints metrics for performance have passed, analysis of the
device's performance across the various subgroups in the performance dataset showed slight
variations. As an example, Figure 1 below shows the differences in average PSNR and SNR
improvements between the different subgroups of the PET-only model results. While all the
subgroups demonstrate significant improvements from SubtleHD-PET processing, subgroups
like Brain, 18F-Flutemetamol & 18F-DOPA (for average PSNR) and 68-Ga-PSMA & 18F-DOPA
(for SNR increase) showed lesser performance gains. Therefore, we advise the users to expect
slight performance differences based on various confounding factors.
Figure 1: Plot showing the device’s performance differences in average PSNR and SNR
improvements between the different subgroups of the PET-only model results.We observed statistically significant differences in performance metrics (PSNR, SNR, RMSE,
SSIM) between the "Training Site" and "Not Training Site" subgroups, but these differences are
reduced and become non-significant when we balance the datasets of the two cohorts.
Therefore, we contend that this difference is not a result of model bias toward specific clinical
sites, but rather a reflection of the imbalance in anatomy and radiotracer types between the two
cohorts.
Various reconstruction methods are present in the performance dataset, as per the metadata
accompanying the images from the sources, including: BLOB-OS-TF, FORE - OSEM 3D, OSEM
2D, OSEM 3D, OSEM 3D + PSF, OSEM 3D + PSF + TOF, OSEM 3D + TOF, Q.Clear, VPFX,
VPFX + PSF, VPHD and VPHD + PSF. While some reconstruction methods receive greater
benefits from SubtleHD-PET processing, all 12 reconstruction methods showed a significant
improvement across PSNR, RMSE, SSIM, and SNR. In the χ² analysis, reduced performance
was observed with VPFX + PSF reconstruction. Therefore, we suggest caution while using
SubtleHD-PET for VPFX+PSF.Figure 1. Box plot of device performance metrics with respect to reconstruction method. Across
all reconstruction methods, quantitative metrics showed a significant improvement after
processing with SubtleHD-PET.
Performance Validation:
This study utilized retrospectively acquired human data acquired as part of research studies or
clinical exams from various institutions. For each dataset, four slices were selected from the
upper quartile of slices, 2nd quartile, 3rd quartile, and lowest quartile by a Subtle Medical
employee with an MD and/or a PhD in a clinically-relevant field for the calculation of PSNR,
RMSE, and SSIM. For the calculation of SUVmax and SNR, 2 rectangular ROIs are drawn in an
area with focal uptake (lesion) and background regions, respectively, by a Subtle Medicalemployee with an MD and/or a PhD in a clinically-relevant field. In total 203 studies were used
to validate the PET-only model and 122 studies used to validate the PET/CT model acceptance
criteria in Table 3 at three different mix factors (low, default, high).
The following are the endpoints, acceptance criteria, results, and conclusions from the
SubtleHD-PET:
Table 3. Performance Validation Summary
Endpoint Acceptance Criteria Result /Conclusion
The average increase in
PASS: The average increase in
PSNR is ≥ 1dB and the PSNR
Denoising (Peak Signal-to-Noise PSNR was ≥ 1dB. PSNR increase
increase is significant at the p
Ratio) Primary Endpoint was significant at the p < 0.05 level
< 0.05 level based on
based on two-tailed paired t-test.
two-tailed paired t-test.
Average PSNR improvement for the
PET-only model in the default
configuration is 1.935 dB, with a
range of up to 5.964 dB.
Denoising (Peak Signal-to-Noise Report the range and average
Ratio) Exploratory Endpoint PSNR improvement.
Average PSNR improvement for the
PET/CT model in the default
configuration is 1.215 dB, with a
range of up to 6.065 dB.
PASS: The average increase in
SNR increase is significant at
Denoising (Signal-to-Noise Ratio) SNR was significant at the p < 0.05
the p < 0.05 level based on
Primary Endpoint level based on one-tailed paired
one-tailed paired t-test.
t-test.
Average SNR improvement for the
PET-only model in the default
configuration is 3.179 dB, with a
range of up to 26.938 dB.
Denoising (Signal-to-Noise Ratio) Report the range and average
Exploratory Endpoint SNR improvement.
Average SNR improvement for the
PET/CT model in the default
configuration is 4.590 dB, with a
range of up to 29.876 dB.Endpoint Acceptance Criteria Result /Conclusion
The average reduction in RMSE for
the PET-only model for the default
configuration is -0.040, with a range
of -0.172 to 0.009.
Denoising (Root Mean Square Report the range and average
Error) Exploratory Endpoint reduction in RMSE.
The average reduction in RMSE for
the PET/CT model for the default
configuration is -0.028, with a range
of -0.150 to 0.070.
The average SSIM for the PET-only
model for the default configuration is
0.019, with a range of -0.018 to
Image Quality (Structural Similarity 0.106.
Report the range and average
Index Measure) Exploratory
increase in SSIM.
Endpoint The average SSIM for the PET/CT
model for the default configuration is
0.009, with a range of -0.064 to
0.057.
The following is the average
difference in SUVmax for the
PET-only model for the default
configuration with each tracer:
● 18F-FDG: 0.94%
● 18F-DCFPyL: -0.66%
● 68Ga-Dotatate: -1.53%
● 18F-Choline: -1.03%
Image Quality (SUVmax) ● 68Ga-PSMA: 2.32%
Report difference in SUVmax.
Exploratory Endpoint ● 18F-DOPA: 2.25%
The following is the average
difference in SUVmax for the
PET/CT model for the default
configuration with each tracer:
● 18F-FDG: -2.17%
● 18F-DCFPyL: -6.74%
● 68Ga-Dotatate: 1.00%
Reader Study:
This study utilized retrospectively acquired human data obtained as part of research studies or
clinical exams from various institutions. The data set included 203 studies (203 SubtleHD-PET,
203 SOC) used to validate the PETonly model and 122 studies (122 SubtleHD-PET, 122 SOC)
used to validate the PET/CT model. The datasets were presented side-by-side with
standard-of-care and SubtleHD-PET enhanced images.
Board-certified nuclear medicine physicians evaluated SubtleHD-PET–enhanced images for
image quality/diagnostic confidence using a 5-point Likert scale, assessed artifacts using a
3-point Likert scale, and evaluated false positives and false negatives using lesion counts.
The following are the endpoints, acceptance criteria, results, and conclusions from the
SubtleHD-PET Reader Study:Table 4. Reader Study Summary
Endpoint Acceptance Criteria Result / Conclusion
The average scores across all
readers of the SubtleHD-PET PASS: SubtleHD-PET image
Image Quality (IQ) / Diagnostic enhanced images are an quality / diagnostic confidence is
Confidence Primary Endpoint average of 3 or better the same or better than the
(enhanced images are the standard-of-care images.
same or better than original).
No false positives or false PASS: SubtleHD-PET does not
FP/FN Primary Endpoint negatives are detected in the introduce any false positives or
SubtleHD-PET images. false negatives.
SubtleHD-PET enhanced
images have an average of 2 or PASS: SubtleHD-PET does not
Artifacts Evaluation Secondary
better (SubtleHD-PET does not introduce artifacts that could impact
Endpoint
introduce artifacts that could diagnosis in any image.
impact diagnosis in any image)
Conclusion:
These results demonstrate that SubtleHD-PET is substantially equivalent to the predicate
devices.