April 1, 2026
Smart Soft Healthcare AD
Yoana Ivanova
Regulatory Affairs Director
113 General Kolev St. , Primorski District., Office 7.2
Varna, 9002
Bulgaria
Re: K254015
Trade/Device Name: CoLumbo C-Spine
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: March 4, 2026
Received: March 4, 2026
Dear Yoana Ivanova:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK254015 - Yoana Ivanova Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH LearnK254015 - Yoana Ivanova Page 3
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Catherine Olguin
For:
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K254015
Device Name
CoLumbo C-Spine
Indications for Use (Describe)
CoLumbo C-Spine is an image post-processing and measurement software tool that provides quantitative spine
measurements from previously-acquired DICOM cervical spine Magnetic Resonance (MR) images for users’ review,
analysis, and interpretation. It provides the following functionality to assist users in visualizing, measuring and
documenting out-of-range measurements:
• Segmentation of the vertebrae (C3-C7) and disks (C2C3-C7T1);
• Measurements based on the segmentation;
• Threshold-based labeling of out-of-range measurement; and
• Export of measurement results.
CoLumbo C-Spine does not produce or recommend any type of medical diagnosis or treatment. The device outputs are
intended to be a starting point for a clinical workflow and should not be interpreted or used as a diagnosis. Instead,
CoLumbo C-Spine simply helps users to more easily identify and classify features in cervical MR images and potentially
compile a report. The user is responsible for confirming/modifying settings, reviewing the software-generated
measurements, utilizing CoLumbo C-Spine's output using their medical judgment and discretion.
The device is intended to be used only by hospitals and other medical institutions.
Only DICOM MR images of the spine of patients aged 22 and above with adequate visualization of C2–C7 are considered
to be valid input. Performance has not been established in the presence of vertebral enumeration variants that may
interfere with reliable vertebral counting, including true cervical ribs, hemivertebrae, congenital or acquired vertebral
fusion, for images acquired with contrast media, for cases involving tumors, infections, post-operative changes, or
vertebral fusion, or for examinations in which the C2 vertebra is not adequately visualized.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFCoLumbo C-Spine 510(k) Premarket Notification Smart Soft Healthcare
K254015
510(k) Summary
1. Submitter
Smart Soft Healthcare AD
Address: 113 General Kolev Str., Primorski District., Office 7.2 Varna 9002, Bulgaria
Phone: +359 52 919 513
Fax: None
Contact Person: Yoana Ivanova
Date Prepared: April 1, 2026
2. Subject Device
Name of Device: CoLumbo C-Spine
Common or Usual Name: Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Classification Name: Medical image management and processing system (21 CFR 892.2050)
Product Code: QIH
Regulatory Class: II
3. Predicate Device
Device Name: CoLumbo
Manufacturer: Smart Soft Healthcare AD
Classification Name: Medical image management and processing system (21 CFR 892.2050)
Classification Product Code: QIH
Classification Panel: Radiology
Device Class: Class II
510(k) Number: K241211 cleared August 15, 2024
4. Device Description
CoLumbo C-Spine is a medical device (software) for assisting in the viewing and interpretation
of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the cervical spine. The software is an assistive tool that
helps users to identify and measure c-spine features in medical images. The segmentation and
measurements provided by the software are classified based on rule-based algorithms, and
thresholds set by each software user and stored in the user’s individualized software settings.
The purpose of CoLumbo C-Spine is to provide information regarding different c-spine
measurements. The software automatically initiates measurements resulting from segmentation of
the vertebrae (C3-C7) and disks (C2C3-C7T1). Segmentations serve the purpose of calculating
measurements. User-defined/confirmed settings control the software per individual user’s
preference for annotating features in an image that may have out-of-range measurements.
The device outputs are intended to be a starting point for a clinical workflow and should not be
interpreted or used as a diagnosis. The output is an aid to the clinical workflow of measuring
Page 1 of 5CoLumbo C-Spine 510(k) Premarket Notification Smart Soft Healthcare
patient anatomy and should not be misused as a diagnosis tool. CoLumbo C-Spine does not
produce or recommend any type of medical diagnosis or treatment. Instead, it simply helps users
to more easily identify and classify features in c-spine MR images and potentially compile a
report. The user is responsible for confirming/modifying settings, reviewing the software-
generated measurements, and utilizing CoLumbo C-Spine output using their medical judgment
and discretion.
5. Indications for Use
CoLumbo C-Spine is an image post-processing and measurement software tool that provides
quantitative spine measurements from previously-acquired DICOM cervical spine Magnetic
Resonance (MR) images for users’ review, analysis, and interpretation. It provides the following
functionality to assist users in visualizing, measuring and documenting out-of-range
measurements:
• Segmentation of the vertebrae (C3-C7) and disks (C2C3-C7T1);
• Measurements based on the segmentation;
• Threshold-based labeling of out-of-range measurement; and
• Export of measurement results.
CoLumbo C-Spine does not produce or recommend any type of medical diagnosis or treatment.
The device outputs are intended to be a starting point for a clinical workflow and should not be
interpreted or used as a diagnosis. Instead, CoLumbo C-Spine simply helps users to more easily
identify and classify features in cervical MR images and potentially compile a report. The user is
responsible for confirming/modifying settings, reviewing the software-generated measurements,
utilizing CoLumbo C-Spine's output using their medical judgment and discretion.
The device is intended to be used only by hospitals and other medical institutions.
Only DICOM MR images of the spine of patients aged 22 and above with adequate visualization
of C2–C7 are considered to be valid input. Performance has not been established in the presence
of vertebral enumeration variants that may interfere with reliable vertebral counting, including
true cervical ribs, hemivertebrae, congenital or acquired vertebral fusion, for images acquired
with contrast media, for cases involving tumors, infections, post-operative changes, or vertebral
fusion, or for examinations in which the C2 vertebra is not adequately visualized.
6. Comparison of the Technological Characteristics with the Predicate
Device
In comparison to the Predicate Device, the Subject Device provides comparable outputs in terms
of segmentation, measurement and labeling. A tabular high-level comparison of the Subject
Device and the Predicate Device is provided as Table 1 below.
Table 1 – Comparison of Technological Characteristics with Predicate Device
Predicate Device Subject Device Remark/
(K241211) Discussion
Device Name CoLumbo CoLumbo C-Spine n/a
Page 2 of 5CoLumbo C-Spine 510(k) Premarket Notification Smart Soft Healthcare
Manufacturer Smart Soft Healthcare Smart Soft Healthcare n/a
Classification Radiology Radiology Same
Panel
CFR Section 21 CFR 892.2050 21 CFR 892.2050 Same
(Medical image management and (Medical image management and
processing system) processing system)
QIH QIH
Device Class Class II Class II Same
Intended Use Intended to assist the radiologist, Intended to assist the radiologist, Similar
spine- and neuro-surgeon in spine- and neuro-surgeon in
performing routine evaluations of performing routine evaluations of
lumbar spine MRI exams and cervical spine MR images.
producing a report of findings
summarizing the results of the
evaluation.
Indications for CoLumbo is an image post-processing CoLumbo C-Spine is an image post- Similar
Use and measurement software tool that processing and measurement software
provides quantitative spine tool that provides quantitative spine
measurements from previously- measurements from previously-
acquired DICOM lumbar spine acquired DICOM cervical spine
Magnetic Resonance (MR) images for Magnetic Resonance (MR) images for
users’ review, analysis, and users’ review, analysis, and
interpretation. It provides the interpretation. It provides the
following functionality to assist users following functionality to assist users
in visualizing, measuring and in visualizing, measuring and
documenting out-of-range documenting out-of-range
measurements: measurements:
• Feature segmentation; • Segmentation of the vertebrae
• Feature measurement; (C3-C7) and disks (C2C3-C7T1);
• Threshold-based labeling of out-of- • Measurements based on the
range measurement; and segmentation;
• Export of measurement results to a • Threshold-based labeling of out-
written report for user’s review, revise of-range measurement; and
and approval. • Export of measurement results.
CoLumbo does not produce or CoLumbo C-Spine does not produce or
recommend any type of medical recommend any type of medical
diagnosis or treatment. Instead, it diagnosis or treatment. The device
simply helps users to more easily outputs are intended to be a starting
identify and classify features in lumbar point for a clinical workflow and
MR images and compile a report. The should not be interpreted or used as a
user is responsible for diagnosis. Instead, CoLumbo C-Spine
confirming/modifying settings, simply helps users to more easily
reviewing and verifying the software- identify and classify features in
generated measurements, inspecting cervical MR images and potentially
out-of-range measurements, and compile a report. The user is
approving draft report content using responsible for confirming/modifying
their medical judgment and settings, reviewing the software-
discretion. generated measurements, utilizing
The device is intended to be used only CoLumbo C-Spine's output using their
by hospitals and other medical medical judgment and discretion.
institutions. Only DICOM images of
MRI acquired from lumbar spine
The device is intended to be used only
exams of patients aged 18 and above
by hospitals and other medical
are considered to be valid input.
institutions.
CoLumbo does not support DICOM
Page 3 of 5CoLumbo C-Spine 510(k) Premarket Notification Smart Soft Healthcare
images of patients that are pregnant, Only DICOM MR images of the spine
undergo MRI scan with contrast of patients aged 22 and above with
media, or have post-operative adequate visualization of C2–C7 are
complications, tumors, infections. considered to be valid input.
Performance has not been established
in the presence of vertebral
enumeration variants that may
interfere with reliable vertebral
counting, including true cervical ribs,
hemivertebrae, congenital or acquired
vertebral fusion, for images acquired
with contrast media, for cases
involving tumors, infections, post-
operative changes, or vertebral fusion,
or for examinations in which the C2
vertebra is not adequately visualized.
Intended User Radiologist & neuro- and spine- Radiologist & neuro- and spine- Same
surgeons surgeons
Intended The intended patient population is not Skeletally mature patients of age 22 Highly Similar
Patient subject to any restrictions. and older that are not pregnant and do
Population Automation support requires images of not have fusions, post-operative
patients of 18 years and older, not complications, tumors, infections.
pregnant, without post-operative
complications, tumors, infections.
Supported Body Lumbar spine Cervical spine Similar – different
Part parts of the spine
Threshold- Yes Yes Same
Based Out-of-
Range
Measurements
Supported MR MR Same
Modality
The Subject Device is substantially equivalent in comparison to the Predicate Device. The
information regarding the Subject Device does not raise new questions about safety and
effectiveness, and demonstrates that CoLumbo C-Spine is at least as safe and effective as its
predicate device CoLumbo.
7. Performance Data
Smart Soft Healthcare has performed software design verification testing and has sponsored
external software performance assessment study. The performance data demonstrates continued
conformance for medical devices containing software.
Smart Soft Healthcare conforms to the cybersecurity requirements by implementing a process of
preventing unauthorized access, modifications, misuse or denial of use, or the unauthorized use
of information that is stored, accessed or transferred from a medical device to an external
recipient. The vulnerability assessment and penetration testing demonstrate satisfactory security
performance with no critical and high-risk vulnerabilities.
Software Performance Validation
To validate the CoLumbo C-Spine software from a clinical perspective, a software performance
Page 4 of 5CoLumbo C-Spine 510(k) Premarket Notification Smart Soft Healthcare
assessment study was conducted in the U.S. The software performance assessment study included
95 MRI c-spine studies for 95 patients of different gender, ages and racial groups. The
performance assessment study compared the CoLumbo C-Spine software outputs to the ground
truth defined by 4 radiologists on segmentations and measurements.
Measurement MAE 95% CI
Vertebral body height 0.72 mm (0.56, 0.88 mm)
Disk height 0.90 mm (0.76, 1.05 mm)
Disk material outside of the intervertebral space AP size 0.72 mm (0.52, 0.92 mm)
Focal disk material outside of the intervertebral space
1.29 mm (0.94, 1.63 mm)
AP-size
Tissue Segmentation MDC 95% CI
Vertebral body (sagittal) 0.90 (0.86, 0.93)
Disk (sagittal) 0.84 (0.81, 0.87)
Disk material outside of the intervertebral space
0.70 (0.68, 0.73)
(sagittal)
Focal disk material outside of the intervertebral space
0.68 (0.64, 0.72)
(axial)
8. Conclusions
The CoLumbo C-Spine software is as safe and effective as its predicate device. The subject
device has the same intended uses and similar indications, technological characteristics, and
principles of operation as its predicate device. The minor differences between subject and
predicate device do not alter the intended use of the device and do not raise new or different
questions regarding its safety and effectiveness when used as labeled.
The software verification and validation testing data, including the standalone software
performance assessment study data, supports the safety of the devices and demonstrates that the
CoLumbo C-Spine software performs as intended in the specified use conditions.
Page 5 of 5