March 30, 2026
ViTAA Medical Solutions, Inc.
℅ Kyle O'Sullivan
Associate, Regulatory Affairs
MCRA an IQVIA Business
803 7th St. NW
Washington, District of Columbia 20001
Re: K254207
Trade/Device Name: AiORTA - Plan v2.0
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: March 4, 2026
Received: March 4, 2026
Dear Kyle O'Sullivan:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.04
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK254207 - Kyle O'Sullivan Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-K254207 - Kyle O'Sullivan Page 3
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K254207
Device Name
AiORTA - Plan v2.0
Indications for Use (Describe)
The AiORTA - Plan tool is an image analysis software tool for volumetric assessment, image analysis, geometric analysis,
and pre-operative sizing and planning. It provides volumetric visualization and measurements based on 3D reconstruction
computed from cardiovascular CTA scans. The software device is intended to provide adjunct information to a licensed
healthcare practitioner (HCP) in addition to clinical data and other inputs, as a measurement tool used in assessment of
aortic aneurysm, pre-operative evaluation, planning and sizing for cardiovascular intervention and surgery, and for post-
operative evaluation in patients 22 years old and older.
The device is not intended to provide stand-alone diagnosis or suggest an immediate course of action in treatment or
patient management
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFViTAA Medical Solutions, Inc. K254207: AiORTA – Plan v2.0 510(k) Summary
510(k) Summary
Basic Information
Manufacturer: ViTAA Medical Solutions, Inc.
2590 Rue de Rouen
Montreal, QC H2K1M6
Contact: Mitchel Benovoy
2590 Rue de Rouen
Montreal, QC H2K1M6
(514) 655-9952
mitchelbenovoy@vitaamedical.com
Preparation Date: March 25, 2026
Subject Device trade name: AiORTA – Plan v2.0
Medical Specialty: Radiology
Classification: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management and Processing System
Common Name: Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Class: II
Product Code: QIH
Predicate Device Trade Name: AiORTA – Plan v1.1 (K250337)
Medical Specialty: Radiology
Classification: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management and Processing System
Common Name: Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
1ViTAA Medical Solutions, Inc. K254207: AiORTA – Plan v2.0 510(k) Summary
Class: II
Product Code: QIH
Indications for use
The AiORTA - Plan tool is an image analysis software tool for volumetric assessment, image
analysis, geometric analysis, and pre-operative sizing and planning. It provides volumetric
visualization and measurements based on 3D reconstruction computed from
cardiovascular CTA scans. The software device is intended to provide adjunct information
to a licensed healthcare practitioner (HCP) in addition to clinical data and other inputs, as
a measurement tool used in assessment of aortic aneurysm, pre-operative evaluation,
planning and sizing for cardiovascular intervention and surgery, and for post-operative
evaluation in patients 22 years old and older.
The device is not intended to provide stand-alone diagnosis or suggest an immediate
course of action in treatment or patient management
Device description
AiORTA - Plan v2.0 is a cloud-based software tool used to make and review geometric
measurements of cardiovascular structures, specifically abdominal aortic aneurysms. The
software uses CT scan data as input to make measurements from 2D and 3D mesh based
images. Software outputs are intended to be used as a measurement tool used in
assessment of aortic aneurysm, pre-operative evaluation, planning and sizing for
cardiovascular intervention and surgery, and for post-operative evaluation.
The AiORTA - Plan v2.0 software consists of two components, the Analysis Pipeline and
Web Application.
The Analysis Pipeline is the data processing engine that produces measurements of the
abdominal aorta based on the input DICOM images. It consists of multiple automated
modules that are used to preprocess the DICOM images, compute geometric parameters
(e.g., centerlines, diameters, lengths, volumes), and upload the results to the Web App for
clinician review. The end user (licensed healthcare practitioner) is ultimately responsible
for the accuracy of the segmentations, the resulting measurements, and any clinical
decisions based on these outputs.
The workflow of the Analysis Pipeline can be described in the following steps:
2ViTAA Medical Solutions, Inc. K254207: AiORTA – Plan v2.0 510(k) Summary
• Input: the Analysis Pipeline receives a CTA scan as input.
• Segmentation: an AI-powered auto-masking algorithm performs segmentation of
the aortic lumen, wall, and key anatomical landmarks, including the superior
mesenteric, celiac, and renal arteries, as well as the external iliac arteries and a
large portion of the descending aorta.
• 3D conversion: the segmentations are converted into 3D mesh representations.
• Measurement computation: from the 3D representations, the aortic centerline and
geometric measurements, such as diameters, lengths, and volumes, are computed.
• Follow-up study analysis: for patients with multiple studies, the system can detect
and display changes in aortic geometry between studies.
• Report generation: a report is generated by the user in the web application
containing key measurements and a 3D Anatomy Map providing multiple views of
the abdominal aorta and its landmarks. A detailed breakdown is presented
including targeting landing zones and critical regions of interest and C-ARM
calculations for proximal neck and distal left and right common iliac arteries.
• Web application integration: the outputs, including the segmented CT masks, and
3D visualizations, are uploaded to the Web App for interactive review and analysis.
The Web Application (Web App) is the front end and user facing component of the system.
It is a cloud-based user interface offered to the qualified clinician to first upload de-
identified cardiovascular CTA scans in DICOM format, along with relevant demographic
and medical information about the patient and current study. The uploaded data is
processed asynchronously by the Analysis Pipeline. Once processing is complete, the Web
App then enables clinicians to interactively review and analyze the resulting outputs.
Main features of the Web App include:
• Full suite of image analysis tools: Clinicians can review segmentations and make
manual corrections of all measurements generated by the software by viewing the
CT slices alongside the segmentation masks. Segmentations can be revised using
tools such as a brush or pixel eraser, with adjustable brush size, to select or remove
pixels as needed. When clinicians revise segmentations, they can request
asynchronous re-analysis by the Analysis Pipeline, which generates updated
measurements and a 3D Anatomy Map of the aorta based on the revised
segmentations.
• 3D visualization: The aorta and key anatomical landmarks can be examined in full
rotational views using the 3D Anatomy Map.
3ViTAA Medical Solutions, Inc. K254207: AiORTA – Plan v2.0 510(k) Summary
• Measurement tools: Clinicians can perform measurements directly on the 3D
Anatomy Map of the abdominal aorta and have access to a variety of measurement
tools, including:
• Centerline distance, which measures the distance (in mm) between two user-
selected planes along the aortic centerline.
• Diameter range, which measures the minimum and maximum diameters (in mm)
within the region of interest between two user-selected planes along the aortic
centerline.
• Local diameter, which measures the diameter (in mm) at the user-selected plane
along the aortic centerline.
• Volume, which measures the volume (in mL) between two user-selected planes
along the aortic centerline.
• Calipers, which allow additional linear measurements (in mm) at user-selected
points.
• Screenshots: Clinicians can capture images of the 3D visualizations of the aorta or
the segmentations displayed on the CT slices.
• Longitudinal analysis: For patients with multiple studies, the Web App allows side-
by-side review of studies. Clinicians have access to the same measurement and
visualization tools available in single-study review, enabling comparison between
studies.
• Reporting: Clinicians can generate and download reports containing all
measurements in the application measurements and screenshots captured during
review.
Substantial Equivalence Comparison
Device Predicate Device: Subject Device: AiORTA Comparison
Characteristi AiORTA Plan 1.1 Plan 2.0
c (K250337) (K254207)
Manufacturer ViTAA Medical, Inc. ViTAA Medical, Inc. Identical
Classification 21 CFR 892.2050 21 CFR 892.2050 Identical
Product code QIH QIH Identical
Intended use The AiORTA - Plan tool is The AiORTA - Plan tool is Addition of
statement an image analysis an image analysis “patients 22
software tool for software tool for years old and
volumetric assessment. volumetric assessment, older” added to
4ViTAA Medical Solutions, Inc. K254207: AiORTA – Plan v2.0 510(k) Summary
Device Predicate Device: Subject Device: AiORTA Comparison
Characteristi AiORTA Plan 1.1 Plan 2.0
c (K250337) (K254207)
It provides volumetric image analysis, intended use &
visualization and geometric analysis, and indications for
measurements based pre-operative sizing and use statement
on 3D reconstruction planning. It provides per FDA
computed from volumetric visualization recommendation
cardiovascular CTA and measurements .
scans. The software based on 3D
device is intended to reconstruction
provide adjunct computed from
information to a licensed cardiovascular CTA
healthcare practitioner scans. The software
(HCP) in addition to device is intended to
clinical data and other provide adjunct
inputs, as a information to a licensed
measurement tool used healthcare practitioner
in assessment of aortic (HCP) in addition to
aneurysm, pre-operative clinical data and other
evaluation, planning and inputs, as a
sizing for cardiovascular measurement tool used
intervention and surgery, in assessment of aortic
and for post-operative aneurysm, pre-operative
evaluation. evaluation, planning and
sizing for cardiovascular
The device is not intervention and surgery,
intended to provide and for post-operative
stand-alone diagnosis or evaluation in patients 22
suggest an immediate years old and older.
course of action in The device is not
treatment or patient intended to provide
management. stand-alone diagnosis or
suggest an immediate
course of action in
treatment or patient
management
Use Hospital Hospital Identical
Environment
Intended end- Healthcare Practitioner Healthcare Practitioner Identical
user
Anatomical Abdominal aorta Abdominal aorta + The region of
scope external iliac arteries interest has been
expanded in v2.0
5ViTAA Medical Solutions, Inc. K254207: AiORTA – Plan v2.0 510(k) Summary
Device Predicate Device: Subject Device: AiORTA Comparison
Characteristi AiORTA Plan 1.1 Plan 2.0
c (K250337) (K254207)
and a larger portion of to give clinicians
the descending aorta better ability to
assess access
vessels and
supra-renal
considerations.
This expansion of
ROI does not
introduce new
questions of
safety or
effectiveness.
Image source Cardiovascular CTA Cardiovascular CTA Identical
scans scans
Operating Microsoft Windows Microsoft Windows Identical
system
System Web application Web application Identical
configuration
Analysis Semi-automatic analysis Fully automated A full suite of
workflow pipeline requiring input analysis pipeline. image analysis
from ViTAA analysts. Clinicians retain the tools for manual
Analysis is completed ability to edit outputs. correction by a
within 30 minutes under clinician has
normal conditions. been added. All
corrections and
edits are
performed by the
physician.
Vessel Provides tools for All relevant Additional tools
geometry measuring vessel measurements are are provided to
measurement geometry, including provided automatically, guide the user,
tools diameters, lengths, and along with a detailed while users can
volumes. breakdown targeting still edit or
landing zones and other override the
critical regions of automated
interest. outputs.
Segmentation Semi-automatic Automated Users in v2.0
segmentation using segmentation using have the option
auto-masking algorithm masking algorithm. The of employing an
with manual revisions end-user (clinician) can automated
6ViTAA Medical Solutions, Inc. K254207: AiORTA – Plan v2.0 510(k) Summary
Device Predicate Device: Subject Device: AiORTA Comparison
Characteristi AiORTA Plan 1.1 Plan 2.0
c (K250337) (K254207)
performed by trained view and edit these algorithm instead
ViTAA analysts. End- segmentations using the of a ViTAA analyst
users (clinicians) can included suite of editing for segmentation.
view and edit the tools. Clinicians retain
segmentations. control over the
end result.
Centerline Automatic centerline Automatic centerline Identical
detection detection within the detection within the
analysis pipeline. User analysis pipeline. User
edits of the centerline edits of the centerline
are not supported. are not supported.
Study Allows users to visualize Allows users to visualize Version 2.0
comparison two studies side-by-side two studies side-by-side contains the
across two viewports, across two viewports, addition of
enabling a direct enabling a direct device
comparison of comparison of suggestions
structures between the structures between the based on look-up
studies. studies. tables provided
by the institution.
Provides measurement Provides measurement This additional
capabilities in capabilities in helpful
comparison mode, comparison mode, information does
allowing users to allowing users to not raise new
quantify changes in quantify changes in questions of
vessel geometries vessel geometries safety or
between the two between the two effectiveness.
studies. studies. Provides device
suggestions to the user
based on product tables
provided by the
institution, using
clinically-validated
measurements.
Change in Reports automated All previous calculations Additional
geometric measurements with the addition of C- calculations in
analysis describing changes ARM calculations for the v2.0 device
between two studies proximal neck and distal are included to
within the default left and right common accommodate
volume of interest, iliac arteries. the expanded
including: ROI.
7ViTAA Medical Solutions, Inc. K254207: AiORTA – Plan v2.0 510(k) Summary
Device Predicate Device: Subject Device: AiORTA Comparison
Characteristi AiORTA Plan 1.1 Plan 2.0
c (K250337) (K254207)
• Change in
Maximum Lumen
Diameter
• Change in
Maximum Aortic
Diameter
• Change in
Lumen Volume
• Change in Aortic
Volume
Storage of • Report in PDF • Report in PDF Identical
results format format
• Viewports: • Viewports:
Session state Session state
VIEWPORT CONTROLS
General • Lock viewports • Lock viewports Identical
controls • Switch to • Switch to
single/quad view single/quad view
• Take screenshot • Take screenshot
• Show/hide slice • Show/hide slice
plane plane
2d CT image • Pan • Pan Identical
controls • Window • Window
• Level • Level
• Scroll slice • Scroll slice
• Zoom • Zoom
3D map • Rotate • Rotate Identical
controls (clockwise, (clockwise,
counterclockwise counterclockwise
, free rotate) , free rotate)
• Pan • Pan
• Zoom • Zoom
Compared to the predicate (AiORTA Plan v1.1), the subject device (AiORTA Plan 2.0) has a
few technical differences. These include the option for users to receive the direct output of
the automated analysis without initial correction by a ViTAA analyst, with physicians
retaining complete control of corrections and edits. Regions of interest are also extended
to include the external iliac arteries and a large portion of the descending aorta. Image
8ViTAA Medical Solutions, Inc. K254207: AiORTA – Plan v2.0 510(k) Summary
analysis tools for users are expanded, allowing manual correction of all measures
produced by the software. Finally, additional information is provided in the form of C-Arm
calculations and institution-based device suggestions derived from a lookup table.
While the subject device, AiORTA Plan 2.0, contains some additional software features as
compared to the predicate, these features serve only to give clinicians additional
information and control in their analysis and do not raise new questions of safety or
effectiveness.
Performance Testing
No additional performance testing was conducted for the AI/ML algorithms, as these are
identical to those used by the predicate. Software changes included some additional
verification and validation tests, which are summarized in the attachment “AiORTA Plan
V2.0 Change Traceability Summary”. Details on software changes and V&V are also
included in the attached software documentation.
Conclusion
The information submitted in this premarket notification supports the safety and
effectiveness of the AiORTA – Plan v2.0 as compared to the predicate device, AiORTA - Plan
v1.1 in context of the intended use and labelling of the device.
9