February 10, 2026
Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc.
Brian Wui
Regulatory Affairs
2501 N. Barrington Rd.
Hoffman Estates, Illinois 60192
Re: K254016
Trade/Device Name: MI View&GO
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical image management and processing system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: February 5, 2026
Received: February 5, 2026
Dear Brian Wui:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK254016 - Brian Wui Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K254016 - Brian Wui Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Daniel M. Krainak, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
DHT8C: Division of Radiological
Imaging and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureI
Indications for Use
Please type in the marketing application/submission number, if it is known. This K254016
?
textbox will be left blank for original applications/submissions.
Please provide the device trade name(s).
IMI View&GO
Please provide your Indications for Use below.
MI View&GO is a medical diagnostic application for viewing, manipulation, quantification, analysis and
comparison of medical images with one or more time-points. MI View&GO supports functional data, such as
positron emission tomography (PET) or nuclear medicine (NM), as well as anatomical datasets, such as
computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance (MR).
MI View&GO is intended to be utilized by appropriately trained health care professionals to aid in the
management of diseases associated with oncology, cardiology, neurology, and organ function. The images
and results produced by MI View&GO can also be used by the physician to aid in radiotherapy treatment
planning.
I ZPrescription
Please select the types of uses (select one or both, as Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart D)
applicable). S]Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)510(k) Summary
K254016
1. Identification of the Submitter
Submitter / Primary Contact Brian Wui
Person Regulatory Affairs
hansong.wui@siemens-healthineers.com
+1 (865) 367-4337
Secondary Contact Person Clayton Ginn
Regulatory Affairs
clayton.ginn@siemens-healthineers.com
+1 (865) 898-2692
Applicant Name and Address Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc.
2501 North Barrington Road
Hoffman Estates IL, 60192, USA
Establishment Registration Number: 1423253
2. Device Name and Classification
Product Trade Name: MI View&GO
Common Name: Medical image management and processing system
Classification Name: Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Classification Panel: Radiology
CFR Section: 21 CFR §892.2050
Device Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
3. Predicate Devices
Primary Predicate Device:
Product Trade Name: MI View&GO
510(k) Number: K242300
Clearance Date: 08/02/2024
Common Name: Medical image management and processing system
Classification Name: Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Classification Panel: Radiology
CFR Section: 21 CFR §892.2050
Device Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc. 1Predicate / Reference Device
Trade Name: syngo.via MI Workflows
510(k) Number: K251528
Clearance Date: 05/19/2025
Common Name: Medical image management and processing system
Classification Name: Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Classification Panel: Radiology
CFR Section: 21 CFR §892.5050
Device Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
4. Device Description
MI View&GO is a software-only medical device which will be delivered in conjunction with Siemens
SPECT/CT and PET/CT scanners. MI View&GO software provides additional specific capabilities for
handling of PET and SPECT as well as CT and MR data directly at the acquisition console.
The MI View&GO software integrates molecular imaging more efficiently in the clinical environment by
providing an interface for its users to review, post-process and read medical images immediately after
acquisition. The purpose of the MI View&GO is to allow the technologist and reading physician to:
• Review acquired and reconstructed images at the scanner console
• Determine that the acquired data is of sufficient quality for reading, so the patient can be
released.
• Prepare images for reading
• Perform a basic read
5. Indications for Use
MI View&GO is a medical diagnostic application for viewing, manipulation, quantification, analysis and
comparison of medical images with one or more time-points. MI View&GO supports functional data,
such as positron emission tomography (PET) or nuclear medicine (NM), as well as anatomical datasets,
such as computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance (MR).
MI View&GO is intended to be utilized by appropriately trained health care professionals to aid in the
management of diseases associated with oncology, cardiology, neurology, and organ function. The
images and results produced by MI View&GO can also be used by the physician to aid in radiotherapy
treatment planning.
6. Indications for Use Comparison to the Predicate Device
The indications for use are the same between the subject device and the primary predicate device.
Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc. 27. Comparison of Technological Characteristics with the Predicate Device
MI View&GO with software version VA40 software provides the same technological characteristics in
terms of materials, energy source, and control mechanisms when compared to the legally marketed
predicate device since all devices are software only devices.
The software features have been modified in comparison to the predicate device to support enhanced
device functionality.
The intended use, indications for use, and fundamental scientific technology for the subject device
remains unchanged from the predicate device. No features present from the predicate device have been
de-scoped.
At a high level, the subject and predicate devices are based on the following same technological
elements:
• Data Supported (PET, SPECT, CT, MR)
• Server/Client architecture
• Workflow Activities (preprocessing, evaluation and reading, reporting and storage)
• Feature Licensing Structure
• SUV values calculated
The following technological differences exist between the subject device and predicate devices.
MI View&GO VA40:
• Features
General Masking Tool
o
VQ Ratio and Subtraction Images for Auto Lung 3D
o
Improved Lung Segmentation
o
Deauville Score
o
Improved PERCIST Liver algorithm
o
• Improvements to Layout and Usability
Cardiac Layout Enhancement
o
Improvements to Layout Editing and User Presets
o
Any differences in technological characteristics do not raise different questions of safety and
effectiveness. Testing and validation are completed. Test results show that the subject devices are
comparable to the predicate devices in terms of technological characteristics and safety and
effectiveness and therefore are substantially equivalent to the predicate devices.
8. Non-Clinical and/or Clinical Test Summary & Conclusions
The following performance data were provided in support of the substantial equivalence determination.
Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc. 3Software Verification and Validation
‘Enhanced’ software documentation per FDA’s guidance document “Content of Premarket Submissions
for Device Software Functions” issued on June, 2023 is also included as part of this submission. The
performance data demonstrates continued conformance with special controls for medical devices
containing software. The testing supports that all software specifications have met the predetermined
acceptance criteria. Verification and validation testing substantiates all requirement and functional
specifications, including specifications related to device hazards, and supports the claim of substantial
equivalence.
Performance Testing
The device under application, MI View&GO (K254061), deploys the same improved Lung Segmentation
and improved PERCIST Liver algorithm as cleared in the predicate / reference device syngo.via VC10
(K251528).
Improved Lung Segmentation
In addition to verification and validation testing, performance evaluation was conducted in order to
ensure the safety and effectiveness of the lung lobe segmentation algorithm compared to the predicate
device. The lung lobe segmentation algorithm was re-trained with additional data and is utilized within
Auto Lung 3D.
Quantitative evaluation of the segmentation results was performed using the commonly used overlap
measure Dice coefficient (DSC). The algorithm was tested retrospectively on an independent cohort of
20 patients that were not part of training or tuning cohort. The test cohort was augmented compared to
the predicate to include new subjects. Half of the patients in the test cohort were new and the other
50% were randomly selected from the predicate testing cohort.
Performance was compared between the predicate and updated algorithms.
In summary:
I. No overlap of patients between training, tuning, and test cohorts.
II. Relevant test cohort parameters are as follows:
• ~50% male patients
• Slice thickness <=5 mm
• 50% of patients were from the US
• All patients from Siemens Scanner
• Adults, age > 21
Acceptance Criteria for organ segmentation:
• For new organs, the average Dice coefficient per organ shall be greater than 0.8 or the average
symmetric surface distance (ASSD) per organ less than 2 voxel of worst slice thickness, i.e. 10 mm.
• For unchanged organs, the average Dice coefficient per organ shall be within +/-0.03 of the average
Dice coefficient per organ of the predicate algorithm.
Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc. 4• For improved organs, the average Dice coefficient per organ shall be greater or equal than the average
Dice coefficient per organ of the predicate algorithm.
The average Dice coefficient for the 20 subjects was higher for each lobe in the subject device than in
the predicate device, although not greater than a +0.03 difference for all lobes.
The anatomy segmentation feature supports segmentation for a wide variety of organs. Since each
organ utilizes a different model, the Dice-score on other organs (other than lungs and lung lobes) that
were not retrained remained unchanged and this was verified by recalculating the Dice score with the
new algorithm.
Improved PERCIST Liver algorithm
Additionally, performance evaluation was conducted for the improved PERCIST Liver algorithm.
The algorithm takes as input the PET/CT image together with a binary liver mask and returns the
coordinates of the reference region center.
The performance specifications for the binary liver mask used as input to the algorithm are detailed
below.
The test data consisted of 20 patients. The patients were obtained from clinical partners in Europe and
USA. The data was randomly selected using the following stratification:
• No overlap of patients between training, tuning, and test cohorts
• Adults, Age > 21
• ~50% male patients
• Slice thickness <= 5 mm
• All subject from Siemens Scanner
The acceptance criteria for the liver is an average Dice coefficient greater than 0.8 or an average
symmetric surface distance (ASSD) less than 10 mm. The liver met both criteria.
The performance evaluation for the updated PERCIST Liver algorithm is detailed below.
In the first analysis conducted, the reference standard used to evaluate the subject device method
performance consisted of liver VOI positioning obtained semi-automatically by two expert readers. The
subject device algorithm was then compared to the reference standard and shown to yield results in
better agreement with semi-automatic evaluation by expert readers compared with the method of
placement used in the predicate device.
The second analysis conducted focused on PET/CT scans presenting foci with suspicious tracer uptake
either in the liver or with spill over to the liver, evaluating the subject and predicate devices based on
how often the PERCIST VOIs intersected the suspicious uptake masks identified by an expert reader. Out
of 129 subjects included in the analysis, the subject device had fewer intersections (4 cases) compared
Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc. 5to the predicate device (13 cases). As with the predicate device, the user can manually reposition the
PERCIST liver reference region at any time.
Clinical Testing
Clinical testing was not conducted for this submission.
Risk Analysis
The risk analysis was completed, and risk control implemented to mitigate identified hazards. The
testing results support that all the software specifications have met the predetermined acceptance
criteria. Testing for verification and validation of the device was found acceptable to support the claims
of substantial equivalence.
Standards
Siemens hereby certifies that MI View&GO meets the following FDA Recognized Consensus standards
listed below:
Designation
Standards
Number and Recognition
Title Development
Edition/Dat Number
Organization
e
PS 3.1 - 3.20 Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine
NEMA 12-352
2023e (DICOM) Set
62304
Edition 1.1
2015-06 Medical Device Software –Software Life Cycle AAMI, ANSI,
13-79
CONSOLIDA Processes IEC
TED
VERSION
14971 Third
Medical devices – Application of risk management to
Edition ISO 5-125
medical devices
2019-12
62366-1
Edition 1.1
2020-06 Medical devices - Part 1: Application of usability AAMI, ANSI,
5-129
CONSOLIDA engineering to medical devices IEC
TED
VERSION
15223-1
Fourth Medical devices - Symbols to be used with medical
ISO 5-134
edition device labels, labelling, and information to be
2021-07 supplied - Part 1: General requirements
Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc. 620417 First
edition
2021-04 Medical devices – Information to be supplied by the
Corrected manufacturer ISO 5-135
version
2021-12
Conclusion
There are no differences in the Indications for Use, Intended Use, or Fundamental Technological
Characteristics of the MI View&GO VA40 software as compared to the currently commercially available
MI View&GO VA30 software (K242300).
Both the current and predicate devices are used for viewing, manipulation, quantification, analysis, and
comparison of medical images from single or multiple imaging modalities with one or more time-points.
Additionally, the new features implemented within this release do not raise any new issues of safety and
effectiveness as compared to the predicate device. Based on this information, as well as the
documentation in support of the modifications, it is Siemens’ opinion that the MI View&GO software—
with the modifications outlined in this application—is substantially equivalent to the predicate device.
Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc. 7