March 27, 2026
GE Medical Systems Ultrasound & Primary Care Diagnostics, LLC
Tahir Rizvi
Sr. Director of Regulatory Affairs
3200 N Grandview Blvd.
Waukesha, Wisconsin 53188
Re: K254161
Trade/Device Name: Automated Aortic Stenosis Software (AutoAS)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2060
Regulation Name: Radiological computer-assisted diagnostic software for lesions suspicious of cancer
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: POK
Dated: February 27, 2026
Received: February 27, 2026
Dear Tahir Rizvi:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK254161 - Tahir Rizvi Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. SeeK254161 - Tahir Rizvi Page 3
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
for
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K254161
Device Name
Automated Aortic Stenosis Software (AutoAS)
Indications for Use (Describe)
AutoAS is a software application intended to assist medical professionals in the assessment of moderate/severe aortic
stenosis (AS). The software uses an artificial intelligence (AI) algorithm to process previously acquired two-dimensional
transthoracic echocardiography (2D-TTE) images to provide a suggestion of moderate/severe aortic stenosis along with an
associated confidence metric that can be a diagnostic aid to a physician in a point of care or similar setting in determining
if further evaluation is needed, including whether a full echocardiogram (2D, Doppler) needs to be performed.
The results of AutoAS are not intended to be used on a stand-alone basis for clinical decision making and are not intended
to supplement or replace a full echocardiographic examination. AutoAS results, along with the obtained ultrasound
images, must be reviewed by a qualified physician. The AutoAS product is not intended to be used on patients who have
prosthetic valves and/or have had prior valve repair or replacement.
AutoAS software is indicated for use in adult patients and is intended to be an accessory to compatible ultrasound systems
in environments where healthcare is provided.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(K) SUMMARY
In accordance with 21 CFR 807.92 the following summary of information is provided:
510(k) Number K254161
Date March 26, 2026
Submitter GE Medical Systems Ultrasound & Primary Care Diagnostics LLC
3200 N Grandview Blvd.
Waukesha, WI, 53188, United States
Primary Contact Zahra Ghanian
Person
Email: zahra.ghanian@gehealthcare.com
Phone: +1 (385)866-0594
Secondary Contact Tahir Rizvi, Sr. Director of Regulatory Affairs
Person
Email: Tahir.rizvi@gehealthcare.com
Phone: +1 (781)290-6264
Device Trade Name Automated Aortic Stenosis Software
Common/Usual Name AutoAS
Classification Name 892.2060 - Radiological computer-assisted diagnostic software for lesions
suspicious of cancer
Regulatory Class Class II
Product Code POK
Predicate Device EchoGo Pro (K201555)
Ultromics Ltd
Page 1 of 111. DEVICE DESCRIPTION
Automated Aortic Stenosis Software (AutoAS) is a breakthrough1 software product that assesses the
presence and severity of aortic stenosis (AS) in B-mode cardiac ultrasound scans. The software can be
integrated with a compatible ultrasound device in a headless manner. The AutoAS software is intended
to be an accessory to compatible ultrasound systems. The AutoAS software is intended for use in adult
patients undergoing transthoracic cardiac ultrasound examinations in whom assessment for aortic
stenosis (AS) is clinically relevant. The indicated population includes patients who are being evaluated
for the presence or likelihood of moderate to severe aortic stenosis as part of a routine or targeted
echocardiographic study.
AutoAS processes relevant ultrasound images acquired from a concurrent and/or previously acquired
ultrasound exam, employing advanced algorithms to generate AS predictions and supporting outputs for
the user. The AutoAS software operates on B‑mode transthoracic cardiac ultrasound images acquired
during a standard ultrasound examination using a compatible GE HealthCare ultrasound system. The
reading protocol is designed to ensure that AutoAS outputs are used as adjunctive information and are
interpreted within the context of a comprehensive clinical and echocardiographic evaluation by a
qualified physician. The AS prediction, severity, and supporting outputs are summarized as a report that
is available after the exam for the user to review. The report can also be exported to an archive with the
ultrasound images ensuring seamless integration with the patient’s record and facilitating downstream
clinical workflows.
The software’s algorithms process specific views obtained during an ultrasound study. These views may
include the parasternal long axis (PLAX), parasternal short axis at the aortic valve level (PSAX-AV), and
apical five-chamber (AP5). The AS predictions come in the form of a severity prediction: 1) Suggestive of
moderate to severe AS or 2) Not suggestive of moderate to severe AS with associated information on the
confidence of the algorithm’s prediction.
The AutoAS results along with ultrasound images must be reviewed by a qualified physician as the
AutoAS software does not diagnose Aortic Stenosis (AS) but rather indicates the likelihood of AS.
Interpretation of AutoAS results must be performed by a qualified physician with training and experience
in cardiac ultrasound and echocardiographic interpretation. The results of AutoAS are not intended to be
used on a stand-alone basis for clinical decision making and are not intended to supplement or replace a
full echocardiographic examination. The physician must review the AutoAS outputs in conjunction with
the underlying ultrasound images and relevant clinical information. The user is responsible for
determining the clinical relevance of the AutoAS findings and for integrating the software outputs into
the overall diagnostic impression.
2. INTENDED USE/INDICATIONS FOR USE
AutoAS is a software application intended to assist medical professionals in the assessment of
moderate/severe aortic stenosis (AS). The software uses an artificial intelligence (AI) algorithm to process
previously acquired two-dimensional transthoracic echocardiography (2D-TTE) images to provide a
suggestion of moderate/severe aortic stenosis along with an associated confidence metric that can be a
1 AutoAS received Breakthrough Device designation from the U.S. FDA
Page 2 of 11diagnostic aid to a physician in a point of care or similar setting in determining if further evaluation is
needed, including whether a full echocardiogram (2D, Doppler) needs to be performed.
The results of AutoAS are not intended to be used on a stand-alone basis for clinical decision making and
are not intended to supplement or replace a full echocardiographic examination. AutoAS results, along
with the obtained ultrasound images, must be reviewed by a qualified physician. The AutoAS product is
not intended to be used on patients who have prosthetic valves and/or have had prior valve repair or
replacement.
AutoAS software is indicated for use in adult patients and is intended to be an accessory to compatible
ultrasound systems in environments where healthcare is provided.
3. SUMMARY OF TECHNOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS
Automated Aortic Stenosis Software (AutoAS) has similar intended use and similar indications,
technological characteristics, and principles of operation as the previously cleared EchoGo Pro device
manufactured by Ultromics Ltd. A substantial equivalence chart comparing the similarities and
differences between the AutoAS, and EchoGo Pro is provided at the end of the summary document
below (Table 2). The minor differences in the technological characteristics do not raise different
questions of safety or efficacy. Software verification, validation and performance data demonstrates
that the AutoAS is substantially equivalent to its predicate device.
4. NONCLINICAL TESTING
Software verification and validation testing were conducted, and documentation was provided as
recommended by FDA’s Guidance “Content of Premarket Submission for Device Software Functions”
(issued June 14, 2023) for devices classified as “Basic” Level of Concern as defined in the Guidance.
AutoAS was developed and tested in accordance with GE HealthCare’s Quality Management System.
Software documentation generated as part of the design process included:
 Software/Firmware Description
 Risk Management File
 Software Requirements Specifications
 System and Software Architecture
 Software Lifecycle Process Description
 Software Testing as Part of Verification and Validation
 Software Version/Revision Level History
 Unresolved Software Anomalies
 Cybersecurity
In addition to software verification and validation testing, standalone non-clinical testing of the
algorithm components of AutoAS was performed. A summary is provided below:
Page 3 of 11Test Purpose Result
Confidence AutoAS produces a confidence Testing demonstrated a statistically monotonically
Metric metric, also known simply as increasing relationship between the confidence
“confidence”, whenever it value and the probability of accurately detecting
makes a prediction. With this whether moderate / severe aortic stenosis was
metric, the algorithm aims to present.
highly correlate with the true
probability of a successful
binary classification of the
severity of aortic stenosis.
Clip Before analysis, AutoAS Testing demonstrated both a positive predictive
Annotator evaluates each clip with a clip value (PPV) and Sensitivity of 100% (95% CI: (98.5%,
annotator. The function of the 100.0%)) across all view types (i.e., PLAX, AP5, PSAX-
clip annotator is to confirm if AV, and all other views) when classifying the B-mode
the clip is B-mode and part of image. For any image that was classified as B-mode,
“valid” views (such as PLAX, the ability to accurately classify the view was also
PSAX-AV etc.) and rejects any tested, and the verification test results revealed a
other views. PPV of at least 97.1% (95% CI: (94.2%, 98.8%)) and a
Sensitivity of at least 87.5% (95% CI: (83.1%, 91.2%))
across all view types.
Heart Rate AutoAS has the ability to predict The verification testing demonstrated a statistically
Estimation a patient’s heart period by significantly lesser MAD / MAE than the established
looking solely at the video clip. benchmark for all views (AP5, PLAX, and PSAX).
The estimated heart rate is not Based on these results, there were no clinically
reported to the user and is used significant differences between the estimated heart
only internally to the software. rates by the software and the reference
measurements.
5. CLINICAL PERFORMANCE TESTING
Clinical testing to evaluate the performance of the AutoAS consisted of two studies:
 Standalone Performance Assessment, comparing the performance of the software against a
panel of level III cardiologists independently reading full echocardiography studies
 Clinical Performance Assessment (i.e., multi-case multi reader performance study), in which the
performance of reading clinicians was assessed with and without the help of AutoAS software
Standalone Performance Assessment:
A validation dataset was retrospectively obtained consisting of a total 401 studies from 401 unique
patients from four different U.S. institutions. The validation dataset consisted of echocardiographic
studies from multiple ultrasound models from two different ultrasound manufacturers:
 GE Healthcare: “Vivid E95”, “Vivid E9”, “Vivid i", and “Vscan Air SL”
 Philips Healthcare: “iE33”, “CX50”, “EPIQ 5C”, “EPIQ CVx”, and “EPIQ 7C
Page 4 of 11A full read was performed to establish the reference standard, with each of the studies assessed
independently by each of three (3) level-III echocardiographers for AS severity according to Aortic Valve
Area (AVA) per clinical guidelines from the American Society of Echocardiography (ASE).
Each echocardiographer was blinded to the interpretation by the other two echocardiographers and
blinded to the original AS interpretation result from the original study. Each echocardiographer had
access to complete study data and imaging as available from the echocardiographic study. The reference
standard was the majority vote of the 3 echocardiographers (also known as the statistical mode).
Results:
The standalone assessment findings demonstrated strong overall performance; Area Under the ROC
Curve, 93.2% [95% CI: 90.5% - 95.6%] which is statistically significantly greater than the predefined
performance target. Specificity of 92.4% [95% CI: 86.3% - 98.4%] and sensitivity of 75.2% [95% CI: 67.4% -
83.0%] were observed, on par with original reading cardiologists when compared to the same reference
panel). Consistency was noted in the performance metrics across relevant sub-group parameters such as
the age of the subject, BMI, gender, device manufacturer, and the site location used during the
examination.
Table 1. Consistency of performance metrics across relevant sub-group parameters
Area under the ROC Curve
Parameter Sample Size Point Estimate
Age (Years)
< 65 104 0.964
≥ 65 278 0.908
BMI
< 25 121 0.944
25 - 30 126 0.903
≥ 30 135 0.959
Gender
Female 187 0.947
Male 195 0.920
Site Location
Site: Group #1 218 0.922
Site: Group #2 116 0.945
Site: Group #3 48 0.953
Page 5 of 11Sensitivity
Parameter Sample Size Point Estimate
Age (Years)
< 65 45 0.711
≥ 65 193 0.762
BMI
< 25 86 0.733
25 - 30 73 0.740
≥ 30 79 0.785
Gender
Female 113 0.726
Male 125 0.776
Site Location
Site: Group #1 140 0.757
Site: Group #2 73 0.699
Site: Group #3 25 0.880
Specificity
Parameter Sample Size Point Estimate
Age (Years)
< 65 59 0.983
≥ 65 85 0.882
BMI
< 25 35 1.000
25 - 30 53 0.849
≥ 30 56 0.946
Gender
Female 74 0.973
Page 6 of 11Male 70 0.871
Site Location
Site: Group #1 78 0.885
Site: Group #2 43 1.000
Site: Group #3 23 0.913
Clinical Performance Assessment:
A multi-reader, multi-case (MRMC) study was conducted to assess the diagnostic performance of AutoAS,
with five (5) expert echocardiography readers reviewing all studies with AutoAS (aided) and without
AutoAS (unaided). A subset of validation data from the standalone performance assessment was used for
the clinical performance assessment. This dataset consisted of 220 unique studies across 220 unique
patients from three different U.S. institutions. A randomized crossover approach was utilized in which
readers were randomly assigned to the unaided or aided arm and then were switched to the other arm
after a one (1) month wash-out period.
Results:
A statistically significant improvement in sensitivity was observed for the “Aided” readers compared to
the “Unaided” readers (+ 5.5%, 95% CI: (1.5%, 9.5%)), while maintaining comparable specificity (0.897 vs.
0.900). Furthermore, when comparing the diagnostic performance of the two reader groups, the critical
region of the ROC curve revealed superiority for the “Aided” group with an 8.9% [95% CI: 1.2%, 20.5%]
difference in partial AUROC. In addition, aided readers demonstrated higher inter-rater agreement
(89.0%) than unaided readers (81.9%), comparable to the reference standard (88.7%), reflecting
improved reader consistency and diagnostic performance.
6. CONCLUSION
AutoAS is substantially equivalent to EchoGo Pro, cleared under K201555. Both devices share a similar
intended use, indications, technological characteristics, and principles of operation. Both devices are
software-based medical tools employing machine-learning algorithms to aid in the assessment of
heart conditions, although they focus on different clinical applications. AutoAS targets aortic stenosis
(AS), while EchoGo Pro assesses coronary artery disease (CAD). Despite minor differences in specific
technological features and conditions evaluated, these distinctions do not affect its safety and
effectiveness when used as labeled. Extensive performance testing has demonstrated that the
AutoAS is substantially equivalent to its predicate device.
Page 7 of 11Table 2: Substantial Equivalence Comparison Chart
Category Subject Device Predicate Device Discussion
Manufacturer GE HealthCare Ultromics Ltd. N/A
Device AutoAS EchoGo Pro (K201555) N/A
Intended AutoAS is a software application intended EchoGo Pro v1.0.2 is a machine learning- Similar. Both devices are intended
Use/Indications to assist medical professionals in the based decision support system, indicated to be used as diagnostic aids for
for Use assessment of moderate/severe aortic as an adjunct to diagnostic stress cardiac evaluation. Both devices
stenosis (AS). The software uses an echocardiography for patients undergoing specify in the indications for use
artificial intelligence (AI) algorithm to assessment for coronary artery disease that patient management should
process previously acquired two- (CAD). When utilized by an interpreting not be driven solely by the output
dimensional transthoracic physician, this device provides information of the devices. and both devices
echocardiography (2D-TTE) images to that may be useful in rendering an accurate are intended to be used by the
provide a suggestion of moderate/severe diagnosis. Patient management decisions reading physician as part of
aortic stenosis along with an associated should not be made solely on the results of patient evaluation i.e., obtained
confidence metric that can be a diagnostic the EchoGo Pro v1.0.2 analysis. EchoGo Pro images must be formally
aid to a physician in a point of care or v1.0.2 is to be used with stress echo exam interpreted and reported by a
similar setting in determining if further protocols that contain A2C, A4C, and mid- qualified physician. Therefore,
evaluation is needed, including whether a ventricular short-axis views at rest and at both devices are not intended to
full echocardiogram (2D, Doppler) needs peak stress. EchoGo Pro v1.0.2 is not replace the skill and judgment of
to be performed. intended for the assessment of mild or a qualified medical practitioner.
moderate myocardial ischemia, or There is a minor difference in the
The results of AutoAS are not intended to localization of coronary artery disease, or specific condition that is being
be used on a stand-alone basis for clinical for the assessment of myocardial perfusion, automatically detected between
decision making and are not intended to myocardial viability, or valve disease. the devices, with the predicate
supplement or replace a full Limitations: EchoGo Pro v1.0.2 has not assessing coronary artery disease
echocardiographic examination. AutoAS been validated on patients who underwent (CAD) and the subject device
results, along with the obtained previous coronary artery bypass graft assessing AS; however, both
ultrasound images, must be reviewed by a (CABG) surgery. devices are designed to operate
qualified physician. within the same anatomical area.
Page 8 of 11Category Subject Device Predicate Device Discussion
The AutoAS product is not intended to be
used on patients who have prosthetic
valves and/or have had prior valve repair
or replacement.
AutoAS software is indicated for use in
adult patients and is intended to be an
accessory to compatible ultrasound
systems in environments where
healthcare is provided.
Classification Radiological computer-assisted diagnostic Radiological computer-assisted diagnostic Identical
Name software for lesions suspicious of cancer software for lesions suspicious of cancer
Product Code POK POK Identical
Regulation 21 CFR 892.2060 21 CFR 892.2060 Identical
Number
Modality Ultrasound (Echocardiography) Ultrasound (Echocardiography) Identical
Anatomical Site Cardiovascular Cardiovascular Identical
Clinical Aortic Stenosis Coronary Plaques Similar. Despite minor difference
Condition in specific conditions evaluated,
this distinction does not raise new
safety or efficacy concerns as
both clinical conditions are
diagnostic in nature in the same
anatomical site.
Echocardiogram PLAX, PSAX-AV, AP5 A2C, A4C, Mid-ventricle AX While the specific image views
Views required differ slightly between
the devices, both incorporate
quality-control measures to
Page 9 of 11Category Subject Device Predicate Device Discussion
ensure sufficient input data and
generate user-facing reports to
support cardiac evaluations.
Machine- Yes Yes Substantially equivalent. Both
Learning Based devices utilize deep-learning
Algorithm artificial intelligence as the core
technology to provide diagnostic
aid to the user in the assessment
of heart conditions.
Clinical Output Two-level (Binary) Output: Two-level (Binary) Output: Both devices process ultrasound
images to generate a two-level
Suggestive of moderate to severe AS Suggestive of a lower risk of prognostically
diagnostic output intended to
significant coronary artery disease
Or assist medical professionals. The
Or subject device includes a
Not suggestive of moderate to severe AS
confidence score whereas the
Suggestive of a higher risk of prognostically
predicate device does not. The
significant coronary artery disease.
Confidence score generated at study-level. confidence score indicates how
certain the algorithm is in its
prediction, based on the clips
analyzed.
This difference does not raise
safety or efficacy concerns
because the confidence score is
only intended as supporting
information but does not replace
physician responsibility for
diagnosis.
Labelled for Yes Yes Identical. Both devices do not
Interpreting replace clinical judgment,
emphasizing that all exams must
Physician Read
Page 10 of 11Category Subject Device Predicate Device Discussion
be reviewed by an interpreting
reading physician.
Page 11 of 11