April 29, 2026
Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc.
℅ Patricia Jones
Regulatory Affairs Professional
40 Liberty Blvd.
MALVERN, PA 19355
Re: K254184
Trade/Device Name: syngo Application Software
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: December 23, 2025
Received: March 23, 2026
Dear Patricia Jones:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK254184 – Patricia Jones Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K254184 – Patricia Jones Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Lu Jiang
Lu Jiang, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Diagnostic X-Ray Systems Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEAL TH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: 0MB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K254184
Device Name
syngo Application Software
Indications for Use (Describe)
The syngo Application Software is a medical software for real-time viewing, image manipulation, 3Dvisualization,
communication, and storage of medical images and data on exchange media. It is used for diagnostic image viewing and
postprocessing and for viewing and postprocessing during interventional procedures.
The syngo Application Software can be deployed on independent hardware such as a stand-alone diagnostic review,
postprocessing, and reporting workstation. It can also be configured within a network to send and receive DICOM data.
Furthermore, the syngo Application Software can be deployed on systems of the Siemens Healthineers Angiography
system family.
It provides image guided solutions in the operating room, for image guided surgery, by image fusion and by navigation
systems, image guided solutions in interventional cardiology and electrophysiology and image guided solutions for
interventional oncology, interventional radiology, and interventional neuroradiology.
The syngo Application Software can also be combined with fluoroscopy systems or radiographic systems. The syngo
Application Software can be configured with a variety of syngo or Windows-based software options, which are intended
to assist the physician in diagnosis, treatment planning and treatment control. It includes commercially available
postprocessing techniques and OEM options.
Procedures that can be performed include: minimally invasive surgical procedures and minimally invasive tumor
treatment.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
D
C8J Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
"An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid 0MB number."
FORM FDA 3881 (8123) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(k) Summary: syngo Application Software
510(k) #: K254184
Company: Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc.
40 Liberty Boulevard,
Malvern, PA 19355
Date of Preparation: April 27, 2026
This 510(k) summary of safety and effectiveness information is being submitted in accordance
with the requirements of SMDA 1990 and 21 CFR § 807.92.
1. General Information:
Importer / Distributor:
Siemens Medical Systems USA, Inc.
40 Liberty Boulevard,
Malvern, PA 19355
Establishment Registration Number:
2240869
Manufacturing Site:
Siemens Healthineers AG
Siemensstr. 1
91301 Forchheim, Germany
Establishment Registration Number:
3004977335
2. Contact Person:
Ms. Patricia D Jones
Regulatory Affairs Professional
Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc.
40 Liberty Boulevard
Malvern, PA 19355
Phone: (678) 575-8832
Email: patricia.jones@siemens-healthineers.com
3. Device Name and Classification:
Trade Name: syngo Application Software
Classification Name: Medical Image Management and Processing System
Classification Panel: Radiology
Classification Regulation: 21 CFR 892.2050
Device Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
4. Legally Marketed Predicate Device
Trade Name: syngo Application Software
510(k) Clearance K241569
Clearance Date 10/11/2024
Page 1 of 9Classification Name: Medical Image Management and Processing System
Classification Panel: Radiology
Classification Regulation: 21 CFR 892.2050
Device Class: Class II
Product Code: LLZ
Recall Information: This predicate device has not been the subject of any
design-related recalls.
5. Device Description:
The “syngo Application Software” is medical diagnostic software for real-time viewing,
diagnostic review, post-processing image manipulation, optimization, communication,
reporting, and storage of medical images and data on exchange media. It provides image-
guided solutions in the operating room, for image-guided surgery, by Image Fusion and
by navigation systems, image-guided solutions in interventional cardiology and
electrophysiology, and image-guided solutions for interventional oncology, interventional
radiology, and interventional neuroradiology. It can be deployed with a variety of syngo
or Windows-based software options, which are intended to assist the physician in the
evaluation of digital radiographic examinations, including diagnosis and/or treatment
planning.
Siemens “syngo Application Software” is designed to work with digital radiographic,
fluoroscopic, interventional, and angiographic systems.
Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc. hereby submits this Traditional 510(k) to request
clearance to market the following modifications:
List of Modifications:
1) Updated Software VE40C to VE51A
A. New Updated myScrew Path Assist
B. Updated syngo Embolization Guidance user interface
C. Updated syngo TrueFusion
D. New feature “CleanEdge”
E. New syngo DynaCT Bone Removal
F. New syngo DynaCT MORE
G. Updated Contour Enhanced Overlay
H. Updated QuantWeb and 3D volumes feature for visual display on ARTIS Touch
UI
2). Product Claims List
The “syngo Application Software” may be installed either on Siemens released PC
hardware, on Siemens X-ray systems, or on Siemens angiography systems. The “syngo
Application Software” is within the same classification regulation and the intended use
and the general Indications for Use Statement for Siemens’ Medical Image Management
and Processing System remains the same
Page 2 of 96. Indications for Use:
The syngo Application Software is a medical software for real-time viewing, image
manipulation, 3D visualization, communication, and storage of medical images and data
on exchange media. It is used for diagnostic image viewing and postprocessing and for
viewing and postprocessing during interventional procedures.
The syngo Application Software can be deployed on independent hardware such as a
stand-alone diagnostic review, postprocessing, and reporting workstation. It can also be
configured within a network to send and receive DICOM data.
Furthermore, the syngo Application Software can be deployed on systems of the Siemens
Healthineers Angiography system family. It provides image-guided solutions in the
operating room, for image-guided surgery, by image fusion and by navigation systems,
image-guided solutions in interventional cardiology and electrophysiology, and image-
guided solutions for interventional oncology, interventional radiology, and interventional
neuroradiology.
The syngo Application Software can also be combined with fluoroscopy systems or
radiographic systems.
The syngo Application Software can be configured with a variety of syngo or Windows-
based software options, which are intended to assist the physician in the diagnosis,
treatment planning, and treatment control. It includes commercially available
postprocessing techniques and OEM options.
Procedures that can be performed include: minimally invasive surgical procedures and
minimally invasive tumor treatment.
7. Summary of Technological Characteristics of the Subject Device as Compared with
the Predicate Device:
The subject device has the same intended use as the predicate device. Besides the
proposed device modifications, the Subject Device has the same functionality and
technology.
All software components of the subject device are the same as the ones from the
predicate device except for the new optional software applications as presented in the
table below:
The Subject Device modifications do not alter the fundamental scientific technology from
the 510(k) cleared predicate device Siemens’ “syngo Application Software” (VE40C),
K241569.
Page 3 of 9Modifications Subject Device Predicate Device Comparison
syngo Application syngo Application Results
Software (VE51A) Software (VE40C)
K241569
New System 1. Updated syngo syngo Application The VE51 Software contains
Software/ Application Software Software VE40C new /updated features A-H.
Changes from VE40C to VE51A
A. New Updated N/A The New Updated myScrew Path
myScrew Path Assist is a medical software
Assist module intended to be used
primarily by spine surgeons to
facilitate the placement of
devices such as screws and
K-wires in the patients' spine
pedicles for a range of different
indications.
B. Updated syngo syngo Embolization 1. Interactive display of target
Embolization Guidance measurements (diameter and
Guidance user volume) 2.Updated user
interface interface designed with focus
on clinical ease-of-use 3.Three
workflows addressing specific
clinical use-cases 4. Centerline
color scheme visually linking
targets with respective feeders.
C. Updated syngo syngo TrueFusion 1.The communication between
TrueFusion ultrasound and angiography
systems complies with IT
requirements and is secured
using a valid SSL/TLS certificate
issued by a trusted Certificate
Authority (CA). TLS version 1.3
is set as the minimum supported
version.
2.The fused image is displayed
directly on the ultrasound
system screen, allowing the
echocardiographer to view both
the ultrasound and TrueFusion
overlay simultaneously
D. New feature N/A Postprocessing option for head
“CleanEdge” DynaCT volume data. It
reduces noise and high
frequency artifacts in 3D head
data by a non-linear smoothing
filter.
E. New syngo N/A Provides automatic calculation
DynaCT Bone and cropping of bony structure
Removal from thoracic, abdominal, and
pelvic syngo DynaCT volume
datasets of adult patients
F. New syngo N/A syngo DynaCT MORE is
DynaCT MORE intended to estimate the motion
using the acquired image data
Page 4 of 9Modifications Subject Device Predicate Device Comparison
syngo Application syngo Application Results
Software (VE51A) Software (VE40C)
K241569
and to compensate the motion
during the 3D reconstruction
G. Updated Contour Contour Enhanced The Contour Enhanced Overlay
Enhanced Overlay Overlay parameter set within the “Light
Enhancement Features”
has been added to the preset
gallery for VRT images.
H. Updated QuantWeb and 3D Quantweb is now accessible by
QuantWeb and 3D volumes tableside using the ARTIS
volumes feature for Touch Interface. VE51A
visual display on software also enables direct
ARTIS Touch UI interaction with 3D volumes via
touch User Interface.
2. Product Claims List
8. Nonclinical Performance Testing:
Non-clinical tests were conducted for the “syngo Application Software” during product
development.
Siemens claims conformance to the following performance standards:
Recognition Product Title of Standard Reference Publication Standards
Number Area Number and Date Development
Date Organization
5-125 General Medical devices - Application of 14971 2019 ISO
risk management to medical
devices
5-134 General Medical devices - Symbols to 15223-1 2021 ISO
be used with medical device
labels, labeling, and
information to be supplied -
Part 1: General requirements
5-135 General Medical devices -Information to 20417-First 2021 ISO
be supplied by the edition 2021-
manufacturer 04 Corrected
version
2021-12
13-97 Software/ Health software - Part 1: 82304-1 2016 IEC
Informatics General requirements for
product safety
13-79 Software/ Medical Device Software - 62304 2015 IEC
Informatics Software life-cycle process
Page 5 of 9Recognition Product Title of Standard Reference Publication Standards
Number Area Number and Date Development
Date Organization
5-129 General Medical devices - Part 1 62366-1 2020 IEC
Application of usability
engineering to medical devices
13-38 Software/ Application of risk management 80001-1 2010 IEC
Informatics for IT - networks incorporating
medical devices - Part 1:
Roles, responsibilities, and
activities
13-122 Software/ Health software and health IT 81001-5-1 2021 IEC
Informatics systems safety, effectiveness
and security - Part 5-1: Security
- Activities in the product life
cycle
12-363 Radiology Digital Imaging and PS 3.1 – 2024 NEMA
Communications in Medicine 3.20 2024e
(DICOM) Set
13-96 Software/ Standard for Safety, Standard 2900-1 2017 ANSI UL
Informatics for Software Cybersecurity
Network-Connectable
Products, Part 1: General
Requirements
13-104 Software/ Standard for Safety, Software 2900-2-1 2017 ANSI UL
Cybersecurity for Network-
Informatics
Connectable Products, Part 2-
1: Particular Requirements for
Network Connectable
Components of Healthcare and
Wellness Systems
13-83 Software/ Principles for medical device TIR57 2016 AAMI
Informatics security – Risk management
13-143 Software/ Guidance on the use of AGILE TIR45 2023 AAMI
Informatics practices in the development of
medical device software
13-131 Software/ Standard for medical device SW96 2023 ANSI AAMI
Informatics security – Security risk
management for device
manufacturers
The modifications described in this Premarket Notification are supported with verification
and validation testing.
Page 6 of 9Software Verification and Validation:
Software documentation for a Basic Documentation Level software per FDA’s
Guidance Document “Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Device
Software Functions” issued on June 14, 2023, and “Off-The-Shelf Software Use in
Medical Devices” is also included as part of this submission. Non-clinical tests were
conducted on “syngo Application Software” during product development.
The Risk analysis was completed, and risk control was implemented to mitigate identified
hazards. The testing results support that all the software specifications have met the
acceptance criteria. Testing for verification and validation of the device was found
acceptable to support the claims of substantial equivalence.
The Human Factor Usability Validation showed no safety-relevant functions that need to
be validated with a summative usability validation according to the IEC and FDA
Guidelines. “syngo Application Software” is safe and effective for intended users, uses,
and use environments through the design control verification and validation process. No
further risk mitigations are necessary.
Siemens conforms to the cybersecurity requirements by implementing a process of
preventing unauthorized access, modifications, misuse, or denial of use, or the
unauthorized use of information that is stored, accessed, or transferred from a medical
device to an external recipient. Provided in this submission is a cybersecurity statement
that considers IEC 80001-1:2010. The responsibility for compliance with IEC 80001-
1:2010 is the hospital. Provided in the Software Section is the required cybersecurity
information.
Summary of Performance Testing Data:
Tests were conducted in support of the new/updated functionalities for the “syngo
Application Software”:
New Updated myScrew Path Assist testing encompassed basic functional aspects of
3D3D lab registration; acquisition wizard, 3D calibration process, image flip and name of
vertebra, image capture functionality with overlay assist, basic flow screw planning, and
basic flow spine guidance.
The updated syngo Embolization Guidance workflow was tested to validate that
myEmbolization Guide provides semi-automatic identification of target structures, feeder
vessels, and supports precise device navigation for embolization by overlaying planning
information.
Updated syngo TrueFusion workflow was tested to check for overlay on live 2D image on
the ultrasound and vice versa and checks that probe markers are considered for probe
registration.
New feature “CleanEdge” was tested to ensure Interactive reconstruction is performed
using the Clean Edge functionality to reduce the white noise and the edges of the
structures are clear with focus on usage of the Image Correction Algorithms for different
Page 7 of 9system and detector types, and checks that CleanEdge functionality is only available for
specific reconstruction mode.
New syngo DynaCT Bone Removal:
Quantitative segmentation accuracy was assessed through voxel-wise comparison of
AI-generated bone masks against expert reference (ground truth) bone masks. Ground
truth masks were created for 180 test cases. The test cohort was balanced by anatomical
region, comprising 60 cases each for the thorax, abdomen, and pelvis.
AI-generated bone masks were compared voxel-wise with the expert reference masks to
calculate overlap-based segmentation accuracy metrics. Quantitative results
demonstrated close agreement with expert delineations, achieving a mean Dice similarity
coefficient of approximately 0.95 ± 0.02 and a mean intersection-over-union (IoU) of
approximately 0.90 ± 0.03 across the 180-case test set.
In addition to quantitative metrics, a clinical reader evaluation was conducted on 370
datasets acquired in the United States and Europe. Subgroup analyses were performed
based on gender, age, body mass index (BMI), patient size, and data source. The clinical
validation demonstrated an overall bone mask success rate of 100% (370/370 datasets),
based on merged reader assessments. Furthermore, an overall vessel assessment
improvement rate of 100% (304/304 contrast-enhanced datasets) was observed, as
determined by majority reader vote.
In conclusion, these quantitative and clinical evaluation results support that the
AI-generated bone masks are complete and reliable and that their use improves vessel
assessment within the intended anatomical regions.
New syngo DynaCT MORE:
A retrospective comparative assessment of image quality and diagnostic utility was
performed by clinical experts using DynaCT acquisitions reconstructed with and without
syngo DynaCT MORE. A total of 40 liver datasets were included in the analysis. Data
from both female and male patients were evaluated. The mean patient age was 69 ± 10
years, with an age range of 30 to 85 years. Body mass index (BMI) was available for 18
datasets and ranged from 16.5 to 45.2.
For the primary analysis, the acceptance rate for final image quality and diagnostic utility
was evaluated. For each dataset, two independent readers assessed whether image
quality and diagnostic utility after reconstruction with syngo DynaCT MORE were
basically inferior (score 1), basically equivalent (score 2), or obviously better (score 3)
compared with a conventional reconstruction. Sufficient image quality and diagnostic
utility were defined as both readers rating each dataset as non-inferior (score 2 or 3).
Based on the observed data, all 40 datasets were rated as non-inferior by both readers,
resulting in an acceptance rate of 100%. Therefore, the predefined primary acceptance
criterion was met.
For the secondary and further analyses, image sharpness, image contrast, artifact
occurrence, and diagnostic confidence after reconstruction with syngo DynaCT MORE
Page 8 of 9were assessed in comparison with a conventional reconstruction using a 5-point rating
scale. No inferior ratings (scores 1 or 2) were assigned for any of the evaluated
parameters across all assessments. Furthermore, after reconstruction with syngo
DynaCT MORE, no loss of anatomical structures was identified by the readers in any of
the 120 assessments.
In conclusion, the acceptance criteria were met for both the primary and secondary
analyses
Updated Contour Enhanced Overlay workflow was tested to achieve an optimal
visualization of the overlay by adjusting contour enhancement functionality.
Updated QuantWeb and 3D volumes feature for visual display on ARTIS Touch UI
workflow was tested to validate that Quant functionality is available and fully functional on
the system and can be operated via control room and exam room on ARTIS Touch UI.
Performance tests were conducted to test the functionality of the “syngo Application
Software. The results of all conducted testing were found acceptable and did not raise
any new issues of safety or effectiveness.
All software validation data demonstrates that the Subject Device is as safe and effective
when compared to the Predicate Device that is currently marketed for the same intended
use.
9. General Safety and Effectiveness Concerns:
Instructions for use are included within the device labeling, and the information provided
will enable the user to operate the device safely and effectively.
Risk management is ensured via a hazard analysis, which is used to identify potential
hazards. These potential hazards are controlled via software development, verification,
and validation testing. Furthermore, the operators are healthcare professionals familiar
with and responsible for the evaluation and post-processing of medical images.
10. Conclusion as to Substantial Equivalence:
The comparison of technological characteristics, non-clinical performance data, clinical
images, and software validation data demonstrates that the subject device is substantially
equivalent to the predicate device that is currently marketed for the same intended use.
Page 9 of 9