Keya Medical Technology Co., Ltd.
June 4, 2025
℅ Kelliann Payne
Partner
Hogan Lovells
1735 Market St., Suite 2300
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103
Re: K260497
Trade/Device Name: DEEPVESSEL Plaque
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: May 6, 2026
Received: May 6, 2026
Dear Kelliann Payne:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK260497 - Kelliann Payne Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. SeeK260497 - Kelliann Payne Page 3
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureIndications for Use
Please type in the marketing application/submission number, if it is known. This
K260497 ?
textbox will be left blank for original applications/submissions.
.
Please provide the device trade name(s). ?.
H.e
D EEPVESSEL Plaque
lp.
HTee
lxpt
Please provide your Indications for Use below. ?
Te
.
xt
D EEPVESSEL Plaque is a coronary analysis software developed for the analysis of Computed
.
Tomography Angiography (CTA) DICOM data for patients aged 22 and above with suspected or known
He
coronary artery disease (CAD). It provides presence and extent of coronary plaques and stenosis in
lp
patients who underwent CCTA for evaluation of suspected or known CAD.
Te
xt
Users should be aware that certain views make use of interpolated data. This is data that is created by
software based on the original data set. Interpolated data may give the appearance of healthy tissue in
situations where pathology that is near or smaller than the scanning resolution may be present.
The results of the analysis are provided to support qualified clinicians to aid in the evaluation and
assessment of coronary arteries. DEEPVESSEL Plaque results are intended to be used by qualified
clinicians in conjunction with the patient’s clinical history, symptoms, and other diagnostic tests, as well as
the clinician’s professional judgment. The software is not intended to replace the skill and judgement of a
qualified medical practitioner and should only be used by people who have been appropriately trained to
use the software.
Please select the types of uses (select one or both, as Prescription Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart D)
?
applicable). Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
.
Please select the age group(s) for which the device(s) is Neonates/Newborns (Birth to < 29 days old) .
to be used. Infants (29 days old to < 2 years old) He
lp
Children (2 years old to < 12 years old) ?
Te
.
Adolescents (12 years old to < 22 years old)
xt
.
Adults (22 years old and greater)
.
.
He
lp
Te
xt510(k) SUMMARY
KEYA MEDICAL’S DEEPVESSEL PLAQUE
K260497
Submitter
Keya Medical Technology Co., Ltd
No.1502-1,1502-2,1502-3, Floor 15, Building 1 , Yard No.1, Ronghua South Road
Beijing Economic-Technological Development Area, Beijing, P.R. China
Contact Person: Ning Li
Phone: 011-86-10-87531587
E-mail: ningl@keyamedical.com
Date of Preparation: June 4, 2026
Name of Device: DEEPVESSEL Plaque
Classification Name: Radiological Image Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Regulation: 21 CFR §892.2050
Predicate Device: Autoplaque 3.0 (K212758, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center)
Device Description
DEEPVESSEL Plaque (“DVPlaque”, the subject device) is a web-based image analysis application for
the purpose of characterizing and quantifying plaque and stenosis in coronary arteries based on
previously acquired CCTA DICOM data.
DVPlaque applies deep learning neural networks to segment coronary arteries, lumen and vessel
walls, which will be reviewed and edited by trained and qualified analysts, if needed. Plaque, stenosis,
and vessel measurements are outputted based on the analyst-editable segmentation, utilizing simple
rule-based mathematical calculation.
DVPlaque provides a visualization of DVPlaque analysis in two reports — Cardisight Overview Report
and Plaque Analysis Report. In Cardisight Overview Report, location and CAD-RADS stenosis
category of the plaque are visually over-viewed in a simplified 2D model if stenosis and plaque exist.In Plaque Analysis Report, quantitative characteristics of the plaque, including total plaque volume,
calcified plaque (CP) volume, non-calcified plaque (NCP) volume, low-density plaque (LDP) volume,
and plaque burden (defined as percent plaque volume and calculated as total plaque volume/vessel
volume) are outputted both on main vessel branch level and on patient level.
Reports of DVPlaque are provided to clinicians to enable them to assess the presence and extent of
coronary plaque, aiding in determining treatment paths. These reports are not intended to be the final
report used in patient diagnosis and treatment, and should be reviewed with other clinical information.
Clinicians may request a re-analysis of the CCTA DICOM data if they do not agree with the report
analyses.
Intended Use / Indications for Use
DEEPVESSEL Plaque is a coronary analysis software developed for the analysis of Computed
Tomography Angiography (CTA) DICOM data for patients aged 22 and above with suspected or known
coronary artery disease (CAD). It provides presence and extent of coronary plaques and stenosis in
patients who underwent CCTA for evaluation of suspected or known CAD.
Users should be aware that certain views make use of interpolated data. This is data that is created
by software based on the original data set. Interpolated data may give the appearance of healthy
tissue in situations where pathology that is near or smaller than the scanning resolution may be present.
The results of the analysis are provided to support qualified clinicians to aid in the evaluation and
assessment of coronary arteries. DEEPVESSEL Plaque results are intended to be used by qualified
clinicians in conjunction with the patient’s clinical history, symptoms, and other diagnostic tests, as well
as the clinician’s professional judgment. The software is not intended to replace the skill and judgement
of a qualified medical practitioner and should only be used by people who have been appropriately
trained to use the software.
Comparison to the Predicate Device
The overall intended use for DEEPVESSEL Plaque is the same as the predicate device: both devices
are intended to process radiological images and provide measurements of anatomical components in
those images. Furthermore, the subject device’s indications for use statement is similar to the
predicate device. Both devices are indicated to provide an optimized non-invasive application to
analyze coronary anatomy and pathology from CT angiographic images, to provide a post-processing
tool for viewing and analyzing cardiac CT data for determining the presence and extent of coronary
plaques and luminal stenosis, and to provide analysis results to aid in the determination of treatment
paths by the healthcare professional, in conjunction with other patient data. Additionally, both devices
are indicated for use by trained operators.The differences in indications for use between the subject device and predicate device do not cause
the subject device to have a different overall intended use. In particular, the location of use for the
software operator differs, as DEEPVESSEL Plaque is indicated as a web-based application that can
be operated off-site with imaging data transmitted via web-based software, while the predicate device
is indicated as a workstation- based desktop device for use at clinical sites. However, for both devices
the final analysis results are indicated to be provided to a healthcare professional for use at a clinical
location. Therefore, the indicated recipients and locations of application of the final device output are
the same for both devices. Of note, the location of use and workflow of the DEEPVESSEL Plaque
software is the same as the reference device – i.e., trained operators located in regional data centers
use the software device to perform an analysis and generate a report that is subsequently provided to
a healthcare professional end user.
Comparison of Technological Characteristics
The technology of DEEPVESSEL Plaque is similar to the predicate device (see Table 1). Both devices
analyze CT angiographic images for the presence and extent of coronary plaque and luminal stenosis.
In addition, they both require trained operators to perform the assessment. Both devices utilize deep
learning-based vessel, plaque and lumen segmentation, which is reviewed and can be edited, if
necessary, by the operators. Both devices provide equivalent quantitative measurements in a report
to the healthcare professional after completing the analysis. These reports are intended to be reviewed
by the healthcare professional and used in conjunction with other patient information, such as the
original CT images, clinical history, symptoms, clinical risk factors, results of other diagnostic tests,
and the clinical judgement of the ordering prescriber. Both devices have demonstrated agreement
between clinical expert readers and software measurements in clinical performance testing and have
demonstrated appropriate inter-operator and intra-operator agreement.
There are two key technological differences between the subject device and the predicate. First, the
location of the DICOM image data processing is different: The DEEPVESSEL Plaque Cloud software
is web-based and receives DICOM images via transmittal by a secure picture archiving and
communication system (PACS), while the AutoPlaque predicate software resides on a commercial
computer platform at the clinical site and receives DICOM image data via loading from the local
computer hard drive. Second, the location of the trained software operator may be different: The
subject device operator can be at a remote site, while the predicate device operator is at the clinical
site on a desktop computer. For both devices, the software operators are trained to review anatomy,
define and correct the vessels of interest and generate a report. Both devices allow the end user to
revise the analysis as needed, but the approach differs: with AutoPlaque, the user can directly repeat
or modify the analysis on-site; with DEEPVESSEL Plaque, the user can request the remote operator
to perform a re-analysis.Therefore, the minor technological differences between the subject and predicate device do not raise
different questions of safety or effectiveness.
Table 1. Technology Comparison to Predicate
Parameter Subject Device: Proposed Predicate Comments
DEEPVESSEL Plaque Device:
Autoplaque 3.0
(K212758)
Computer Operating Client-Server Google Windows OS Substantially similar. The
System Chrome Application Mac OS difference in platform does
not impact safety or
effectiveness of the device.
Stand-alone software Yes Yes Same
DICOM Compliance DICOM 3.0 Compliant (or DICOM 3.1 Substantially similar. The
higher) Compliant (or difference in platform does
higher) not impact safety or
effectiveness of the device.
2D Imaging Review of coronary vessels in Review of coronary Same. The difference is in the
2D Multi-Planar vessels in 2D MPR, nomenclature only.
Reconstruction (MPR), Curved curved MPR, and
planar reformation (CPR), and straightened view
Straightened Curved Planar
Reformation (sCPR)
2D Measurement 2D measurement tools of 2D measurement tools Same
vessel diameter and contour. of vessel diameter and
contour
3D Imaging Yes Review of structures in Same. The difference is in the
3D nomenclature only.
Maximum intensity No Yes This visualization method is
projection (MIP) not necessary analyzing the
presence and extent of
coronary plaque and luminal
stenosis. The difference in
platform does not impact
safety or effectiveness of theParameter Subject Device: Proposed Predicate Comments
DEEPVESSEL Plaque Device:
Autoplaque 3.0
(K212758)
device.
Multiplanar reformatting No Yes This is not necessary
(MPR): MPR with oblique analyzing the presence and
slicing and variable slab extent of coronary plaque and
thickness luminal stenosis.
Volume rendering based Yes No A preprocessing method that
on centerlines modifies the lumen boundary,
with no impact on product
efficacy or safety.
SCCT Segment Naming Yes (user edit) Yes (user edit) Same
Automatic/Semi-automatic Yes (user edit) Yes (user edit) Same
lumen boundary
determination
Visualize plaque Yes (user edit) Yes (user edit) Same
information
Ideal Model Adjustment Yes No A graphical representation
based on plaque information
that does not affect product
efficacy or safety.
Graphic and text results Yes Yes Same
Quantitative Measurements
Vessel, plaque, and lumen Yes Yes Same
segmentation
Total Plaque Volume Yes Yes Same
Calcified Plaque Volume Yes Yes Same
NCP volume: noncalcified Yes Yes Same
plaque volumeParameter Subject Device: Proposed Predicate Comments
DEEPVESSEL Plaque Device:
Autoplaque 3.0
(K212758)
LD-NCP volume: low- Yes Yes Same
density noncalcified
plaque volume
Vessel Volume No Yes This difference does not
impact safety or effectiveness
of the device.
NCP burden: noncalcified Yes Yes Same
plaque volume / analyzed
vessel volume
LD-NCP burden: low- Yes Yes Same
density noncalcified
plaque volume / analyzed
vessel volume
CP burden: calcified Yes Yes Same
plaque volume / analyzed
vessel volume
Total plaque burden: total Yes Yes Same
plaque volume / analyzed
vessel volume
Plaque composition NCP: No Yes This difference does not
noncalcified plaque impact safety or effectiveness
composition (NCP volume of the device.
/ total plaque volume)
Plaque composition CP: No Yes This difference does not
calcified plaque impact safety or effectiveness
composition (CP volume / of the device.
total plaque volume)
Plaque composition No Yes This difference does not
LDNCP: low-density impact safety or effectiveness
noncalcified plaque of the device.Parameter Subject Device: Proposed Predicate Comments
DEEPVESSEL Plaque Device:
Autoplaque 3.0
(K212758)
composition (LD-NCP
volume / NCP volume)
Diameter stenosis: Yes Yes Same
Maximum diameter
stenosis, with respect to
proximal and distal
references
QCAD: Maximum Yes Yes Same
diameter stenosis
Remodeling index: ratio of No Yes This difference does not
maximum vessel area / impact safety or
proximal and distal effectiveness of the device.
references
Area stenosis: maximum No Yes This difference does not
area stenosis, with impact safety or
respect to proximal and effectiveness of the device.
distal references
Plaque length: diseased No Yes This difference does not
vessel length impact safety or
effectiveness of the device.
Contrast density No Yes This difference does not
difference: maximum impact safety or effectiveness
difference in contrast of the device.
density over lesion with
respect to proximal
MLD: minimal luminal Yes Yes Same
dimeter over lesion
MLA: minimum luminal No Yes This difference does not
area over lesion impact safety or
effectiveness of the device.Parameter Subject Device: Proposed Predicate Comments
DEEPVESSEL Plaque Device:
Autoplaque 3.0
(K212758)
Vessel profile: Area, No Yes This difference does not
maximum diameter, impact safety or
minimum diameter effectiveness of the device.
measured from selected
vessel cross section
Lumen profile: Area, No Yes This difference does not
maximum diameter, impact safety or
minimum diameter effectiveness of the device.
measured from selected
lumen cross section
Performance Testing
The 510(k) submission provided performance data to establish the substantial equivalence of
DVPlaque to the predicate device. A summary of these performance tests is provided below.
Software Verification and Validation:
Software verification and validation testing were conducted to demonstrate that the subject device
meets specifications and works as intended. This included algorithm unit testing, algorithm integration
testing, full system testing, and service portal integration testing.
Reproducibility/Repeatability Evaluations:
Reproducibility & Repeatability (R&R) testing was performed on a group of CT scans with diverse
disease conditions to evaluate the variation of repeated analyses of DEEPVESSEL Plaque with
different image analysts (reproducibility) at different days with a washout-period in between to avoid
memory effects (repeatability). The R&R dataset represented included varying plaque volumes, plaque
compositions, and stenosis grades 0 through 4. The R&R cases included a total of 23 subjects with a
mean age of 62.2 years. Cases came from the same three U.S. clinical institutions used for validation,
and scans represented GE, Arineta, Toshiba, and Siemens CT manufacturers. Testing results met the
pre-specified variability metric threshold and thus demonstrated acceptable performance. See Table
2 below.Table 2. Summary of Repeatability and Reproducibility Testing
Endpoint Factor Acceptance Criterion Pass/Fail
Total Plaque Day %CV due to Day ≤ 5.0% Pass
Volume
Total Plaque Analyst %CV due to Analyst ≤ 5.0% Pass
Volume
Vessel Volume Day %CV due to Day ≤ 5.0% Pass
Vessel Volume Analyst %CV due to Analyst ≤ 5.0% Pass
Clinical Validation Study:
A retrospective, multi-center clinical validation study was conducted to evaluate the performance of
the DEEPVESSEL Plaque software for the detection, quantification, and characterization of coronary
atherosclerotic plaque and stenosis using coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA).
The clinical validation study included a total of 147 CCTA datasets collected from three independent
U.S. clinical sites.
The 147 subjects included in the study ranged from 22 to 88 years old and included 91 men and 56
women. Ethnicity information was collected with 72 White (49.0%), 35 Hispanic (23.8%), 22 Asian
(15.0%), 4 Black (2.7%), 1 others (0.7%) and unknown 13 (8.8%). The validation cohort also
represented a broad range of coronary disease severity, with patient-level CAD-RADS categories
spanning CAD-RADS 0-5, including 61 subjects (41.5%) with clinically significant stenosis (CAD-
RADS ≥3). In addition, all major plaque subtypes were represented in the dataset, including calcified
plaque (130 subjects; 88.4%), non-calcified plaque (134 subjects; 91.2%), and low-density plaque
(133 subjects; 90.5%).
Each subject contributed one CCTA image dataset. Accordingly, vessel-level analyses were
performed on 441 coronary vessel territories, consisting of the left main plus left anterior descending
artery (LM+LAD), left circumflex artery (LCX), and right coronary artery (RCA) for each subject, and
plaque-level analyses evaluated 711 DVPlaque-detected plaques against expert-reader ground-truth
plaques in the primary plaque-detection analysis. CCTA studies were acquired using ≥64–detector
row CT scanners from multiple manufacturers, including GE, Toshiba, Arineta, and Siemens,
representing a range of scanner models and imaging parameters.
Performance of DEEPVESSEL Plaque was evaluated against a reference standard established by
consensus of three expert readers. Two expert readers independently reviewed each case andprovided measurements of plaque volume, plaque composition, vessel and lumen volumes, and CAD-
RADS stenosis category. The third senior expert reader adjudicated discrepancies according to
predefined study rules to establish the final consensus truth. This consensus served as the ground
truth for all analyses.
The pivotal clinical validation dataset was independent from the development dataset. The
development and validation datasets were separated by site, with development data comprising CCTA
images from 1,200 patients acquired from five medical centers in China and one medical center in
Europe, while the pivotal validation dataset was collected from three U.S. clinical sites. The protocol
also excluded data previously analyzed by DVPlaque. DVPlaque analysts and expert readers were
blinded to each other's results during validation.
Clinical performance evaluation demonstrated strong agreement between DEEPVESSEL Plaque and
the reference standard for quantitative plaque measurements and stenosis assessment. Correlation
analyses showed high agreement for total plaque volume, calcified and non-calcified plaque volumes,
vessel volume, and lumen volume at both the patient and vessel levels. Agreement for CAD-RADS
stenosis category demonstrated substantial concordance with expert assessment. The results are
summarized in Table 3. All performance testing results met pre-defined acceptance criteria.
Subgroup analyses demonstrated consistent performance across coronary vessel territories, stenosis
severity categories, scanner manufacturers, imaging parameters, and patient demographics,
indicating robust and generalizable performance across a clinically representative population.
Table 3. Key Endpoints and Performance of DVPlaque
Performance Metric Statistic Results Pass/Fail
(Per-Patient)
Total Plaque Volume Pearson Correlation Coefficient 0.976 Pass
Calcified Plaque Volume Pearson Correlation Coefficient 0.994 Pass
Non-calcified Plaque Volume Pearson Correlation Coefficient 0.945 Pass
Vessel Volume Pearson Correlation Coefficient 0.985 Pass
Plaque Burden Pearson Correlation Coefficient 0.978 Pass
Stenosis Category Weighted Kappa 0.810 Pass
Vessel Segmentation Dice coefficient 0.888 Pass
Lumen Segmentation Dice coefficient 0.887 PassConclusion
The information provided above supports that DEEPVESSEL Plaque is as safe and effective as the
predicate device. The device has the same intended use as the predicate device, and minor
differences in indications for use do not alter the intended use of the device and do not affect its safety
and effectiveness. In addition, the minor technological differences between the devices do not raise
different questions of safety or effectiveness, and they are addressed through software verification
and validation testing and a clinical validation study. Therefore, DEEPVESSEL Plaque is substantially
equivalent to the predicate device.