March 6, 2026
BunkerHill Health
℅ John Smith
Partner
Hogan Lovells US LLP
555 Thirteenth St., NW
WASHINGTON DC 20004
Re: K260167
Trade/Device Name: Bunkerhill Contrast AVC
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.1750
Regulation Name: Computed Tomography X-Ray System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: JAK
Dated: January 20, 2026
Received: January 20, 2026
Dear John Smith:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK260167 - John Smith Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K260167 - John Smith Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Lu Jiang
Lu Jiang, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Diagnostic X-Ray Systems Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K260167
Device Name
Bunkerhilll Contrast AVC
Indications for Use (Describe)
Bunkerhill Contrast AVC is a software device intended for use in detecting presence and estimating quantity of aortic
valve calcification for adult patients aged 40 years and above. The device automatically analyzes non-gated, contrast-
enhanced chest computed tomography (CT) images collected during clinical care and outputs the region of interest
(intended for informational purposes only) and quantification of detected calcium.
The output of the subject device is made available to the physician on-demand as part of his or her standard workflow.
The device-generated quantification can be viewed in the patient report at the discretion of the physician, and the
physician also has the option of viewing the device- generated calcium region of interest in a diagnostic image viewer.
The subject device output in no way replaces the original patient report or the original non-gated, contrast-enhanced CT
scan; both are still available to be viewed and used at the discretion of the physician.
The device is intended to provide information to the physician to provide assistance during review of the patient’s case.
Results of the subject device are not intended to be used on a stand- alone basis and are solely intended to aid and provide
information to the physician. In all cases, further action taken on a patient should only come at the recommendation of the
physician after further reviewing the patient’s results.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(K) SUMMARY
K260167
Bunkerhilll Contrast AVC
BunkerHill Health
℅ John Smith, Partner
Hogan Lovells US LLP
555 Thirteenth St., NW
Washington, District of Columbia 20004
Phone: (202) 637 3638
Contact Person: Eren Alkan
Date Prepared: March 2, 2026
Proposed Device
Proprietary Name Bunkerhill Contrast AVC
Classification Name Computed tomography x-ray system
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.1750
Product Code JAK
Regulatory Class II
Predicate Device
Proprietary Name Bunkerhill AVC
Premarket Notification K243229
Classification Name Computed tomography x-ray system
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.1750
Product Code JAK
Regulatory Class II
Device Description
Bunkerhill Contrast AVC is a software as a medical device (SaMD) product that interfaces with compatible
and commercially available computed tomography (CT) systems. Bunkerhill Contrast AVC detects
localizes, and quantifies aortic valve calcification in non-gated, contrast-enhanced chest CT studies. The
core features of the product are:
• Detection of aortic valve calcification volume at a threshold of 0 mm3.
• Quantification of the overall aortic valve calcification burden in the form of an estimated volume
score (mm3).
1• Localization of estimated calcium burden in the form of AVC region of interest applied to a copy
of the original CT scan.
The device integrates into the clinician’s PACS and does not include a built-in viewer. It works in parallel
with and runs in the background of the physician’s workflow. When chest CT scans are captured, the images
are automatically sent via the DICOM protocol to an on-premises server (“Bunkerhill Edge Server”)
running the Bunkerhill software. Images are de-identified on the Bunkerhill Edge Server and sent to a
Bunkerhill Cloud Server for processing, where the artificial intelligence algorithm (Bunkerhill Contrast
AVC) is applied to the image to detect, estimate, and localize aortic valve calcium. The results from the
algorithm are then relayed back to the on-premises Bunkerhill Edge Server, where the associated chest CT
images are re-identified, and results are paired with the appropriate images and routed to be made available
in the physician’s workflow.
Algorithm Overview
The Bunkerhill Contrast AVC device is a deep-learning model for detecting aortic valve calcification on
non-gated, contrast-enhanced chest computed tomography (CT) exams. The device consists of a
convolutional neural network (CNN) architecture trained to segment calcifications on CT volumes with
slice thickness at most 3.0mm. The calcifications are grouped into calcified lesions, and the area of each
lesion is summed across the slices to determine a volume score in cubic millimeters for the entire CT scan.
This fully automatic algorithm was designed to take a non-gated, contrast-enhanced chest CT volume as
input and provide an estimated aortic valve calcification volume and region of interest as output.
Intended Use / Indications for Use
Bunkerhill Contrast AVC is a software device intended for use in detecting presence and estimating quantity
of aortic valve calcification for adult patients aged 40 years and above. The device automatically analyzes
non-gated, contrast-enhanced chest computed tomography (CT) images collected during clinical care and
outputs the region of interest (intended for informational purposes only) and quantification of detected
calcium.
The output of the subject device is made available to the physician on-demand as part of his or her standard
workflow. The device-generated quantification can be viewed in the patient report at the discretion of the
physician, and the physician also has the option of viewing the device- generated calcium region of interest
in a diagnostic image viewer. The subject device output in no way replaces the original patient report or the
original non-gated, contrast-enhanced CT scan; both are still available to be viewed and used at the
discretion of the physician.
The device is intended to provide information to the physician to provide assistance during review of the
patient’s case. Results of the subject device are not intended to be used on a stand- alone basis and are
solely intended to aid and provide information to the physician. In all cases, further action taken on a patient
should only come at the recommendation of the physician after further reviewing the patient’s results.
Technological Characteristics Comparison:
The subject device and predicate device are all intended for use in detecting presence and estimating
quantity calcification. The only difference in intended use between subject and predicate device is that
while the predicate device analyzes non-gated, non-contrast chest CT images the subject device analyzes
non-gated, contrast-enhanced chest CT images. Given the identical principles of operation and
2technological characteristics, the differences do not raise any new questions of safety and effectiveness.
Both the subject and predicate device assist the medical professionals in detecting presence and location of
calcifications. Both subject and predicate devices are to aid medical professionals in viewing and analyzing
cardiac computed tomography (CT) data to determine presence and extent of calcification.
Table 1: Substantial Equivalence-Intended Use Table
Proposed Device: Bunkerhill Predicate Device: Bunkerhill
Contrast AVC AVC (K243229)
Intended use / Indications for Bunkerhill Contrast AVC is a Bunkerhill AVC is a software
use software device intended for use device intended for use in
in detecting presence and detecting presence and
estimating quantity of aortic estimating quantity of aortic
valve calcification for adult valve calcification for adult
patients aged 40 years and patients aged 40 years and
above. The device automatically above. The device
analyzes non-gated, contrast- automatically analyzes non-
enhanced chest computed gated, non- contrast chest
tomography (CT) images computed tomography (CT)
collected during clinical care images collected during
and outputs the region of clinical care and outputs the
interest (intended for region of interest (intended
informational purposes only) for informational purposes
and quantification of detected only) and quantification of
calcium. detected calcium.
The output of the subject device The output of the subject
is made available to the device is made available to
physician on-demand as part of the physician on- demand as
his or her standard workflow. part of his or her standard
The device-generated workflow.
quantification can be viewed in
the patient report at the The device-generated
discretion of the physician, and quantification can be viewed
the physician also has the option in the patient report at the
of viewing the device- generated discretion of the physician,
calcium region of interest in a and the physician also has
diagnostic image viewer. The the option of viewing the
subject device output in no way device- generated calcium
replaces the original patient region of interest in a
report or the original non-gated, diagnostic image viewer. The
contrast-enhanced CT scan; both subject device output in no
are still available to be viewed way replaces the original
and used at the discretion of the patient report or the original
physician. non- gated, non- contrast CT
scan; both are still available
3Proposed Device: Bunkerhill Predicate Device: Bunkerhill
Contrast AVC AVC (K243229)
The device is intended to to be viewed and used at the
provide information to the discretion of the physician.
physician to provide assistance
during review of the patient’s The device is intended to
case. Results of the subject provide information to the
device are not intended to be physician to provide
used on a stand- alone basis and assistance during review of
are solely intended to aid and the patient’s case.
provide information to the
physician. In all cases, further Results of the subject device are
action taken on a patient should not intended to be used on a
only come at the stand- alone basis and are solely
recommendation of the intended to aid and provide
physician after further reviewing information to the physician. In
the patient’s results. all cases, further action taken on
a patient should only come at
the recommendation of the
physician after further reviewing
the patient’s results.
Summary of Technological Characteristics
• Both the predicate(s) and the subject device use deep-learning algorithms to identify the presence
of calcification and estimate calcification.
• Both devices analyze non-gated chest computed tomography (CT) images that are sent to the
software in DICOM format.
• Both the predicate and the subject device quantify the calcification by generating a metric (an
estimated score).
• Both devices serve as support tools to provide information to the physician. Both can be used on-
demand or optionally by the physician and do not provide a definitive diagnosis. Both devices do
not replace clinical evaluation and do not alter the standard of care. Both require the physician to
use this information to decide next steps and/or additional diagnostic work up.
• Both devices provide a visual representation of the region of the detected calcification for better
explainability and for the physician to confirm the device output.
• There are no major technological differences between the subject device and predicate device. The
only technological difference that exists between the subject and predicate device is that the subject
device outputs volume in mm3 using a deterministic mathematical formula based on the raw
segmentation maps, while the predicate devices output Agatston Units using a deterministic
formula based on raw segmentation maps.
4Proposed Device: Predicate Device: Summary
Bunkerhill Contrast AVC Bunkerhill AVC (K243229)
Product code JAK JAK Same
Regulation 21 CFR §892.1750 21 CFR §892.1750 Same
number
Modality Computed tomography (CT) Computed tomography (CT) Same
Image format DICOM DICOM Same
Supported CT Contrast-enhanced, Non-cardiac- Non-contrast, Non-cardiac-gated Similar
Scan gated CT scan CT scan
Slice thickness Up to 5 mm Up to 5 mm Same
Calcification Automatic Automatic Same
detection
Main image DICOM DICOM Same
quality
Annotation of Yes Yes Same
detected calcium
Visual Output Visual output in the form a Visual output in the form a Region Similar
format Region of Interest or ROI of Interest or ROI (intended for
(intended for informational informational purposes only). The
purposes only). The estimated estimated visual output can be
visual output can be viewed by viewed by the physician in a
the physician in a diagnostic diagnostic image viewer. The
image viewer. The physician’s physician’s standard method for
standard method for viewing viewing unaltered chest CT scans
unaltered chest CT scans in in PACS will remain available to
PACS will remain available to them even if the subject device is
them even if the subject device is being used. However, the
being used. However, the physician will also have an option
physician will also have an option to view the visual output estimated
to view the visual output by the subject device as a separate
estimated by the subject device as series within PACS.
a separate series within PACS.
Generate patient Optional to copy result to Optional to copy result to Same
report clipboard, insert in report, clipboard, insert in report, DICOM
DICOM Secondary Capture Secondary Capture
Report of the Yes, estimated calcification Yes, estimated exact Agatston- Similar
calcium score volume (mm3) score and binary equivalent score and binary output
output (presence/absence) (presence/absence)
Type of Adjunctive information Adjunctive information Same
Interpretation
5Proposed Device: Predicate Device: Summary
Bunkerhill Contrast AVC Bunkerhill AVC (K243229)
Intended User Qualified medical professionals Qualified medical professionals Same
such as such as
Patient Patients aged 40 years and above Patients aged 40 years and above Same
population
Anatomical Chest (aortic valve) Chest (aortic valve) Same
location
Intended location Medical facility Medical facility Same
Rx or OTC Rx Rx Same
Performance Data
Safety and performance of Bunkerhill Contrast AVC has been evaluated and verified in accordance with
software specifications and applicable performance standards through Software Development and
Validation & Verification Process to ensure performance according to specifications, User Requirements
and Federal Regulations and Guidance documents, “Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software
Functions” and Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality System Considerations and Content of
Premarket Submissions.
The Contrast AVC performance was validated in a stand-alone retrospective study for detection,
localization and agreement of the device output compared to the established ground truth. The pivotal
dataset was curated from multiple sites across three geographical regions in the United States. The co-
primary endpoints of Sensitivity and Specificity (Se/Sp), Precision and Recall of the circular ROI and
correlation coefficient were met successfully. The acceptance criteria were derived from the performance
of the predicate device and clinical literature in high impact journals that investigate the inter-reader
agreement of manual segmentation. The co-primary endpoint of a Bland Altman agreement was also
successfully met. The observed bias in the pivotal study was -20.86 mm3 and lower and upper limits
agreements were –172.58 mm3 and 130.85 mm3, respectively. As result, Bunkerhill Contrast AVC met
the mean difference and limits of agreement acceptance criteria, thus satisfying all the endpoints of the
pivotal testing study. The low mean difference demonstrates that Bunkerhill Contrast AVC has a bias of
low magnitude. The observed Sensitivity was 0.972 (0.940, 1.000), the observed specificity was 0.933
(0.895, 0.971), the observed Precision was 0.862 (0.820, 0.899) and the observed Recall was 0.919 (0.887,
0.945). As a result, Bunkerhill Contrast AVC met all study acceptance criteria.
An additional bridging study comparing the volume generated by the Contrast AVC device on a contrast-
enhanced image to the calcification volume on the same patient calculated on a non-contrast image was
conducted. This study intended to further demonstrate the validity of the Contrast AVC device in detecting
and quantifying aortic valve calcification in patients in line with its intended use. 65 cases were included in
the bridging study. The study met the predefined acceptance criteria with a mean bias of 2.05 mm3 and
LOA of -30.45 mm3 to 34.54 mm3.
6The testing demonstrates that the device is substantially equivalent to the predicate as required by 21 CFR
807.92(b)(3) since both the predicate and subject device demonstrated that with the cited mean difference
and limits of agreement, the primary endpoint for calcium score was met.
7Conclusions
Bunkerhill Contrast AVC is substantially equivalent to the predicate Bunkerhill AVC Device (K243229).
The subject device has the same intended uses and similar indications, technological characteristics, and
principles of operation as its predicate devices. The minor differences in indications do not alter the intended
diagnostic use of the device and do not affect its safety and effectiveness when used as labeled. In summary,
any minor differences between Bunkerhill Contrast AVC and the predicate devices do not raise any issues
of safety or effectiveness.
8