March 6, 2026
BunkerHill Health
℅ John Smith, Partner
Hogan Lovells US LLP
555 Thirteenth St., NW
WASHINGTON DC 20004
Re: K260166
Trade/Device Name: Bunkerhill Contrast CAC
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.1750
Regulation Name: Computed Tomography X-Ray System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: JAK
Dated: January 20, 2026
Received: January 20, 2026
Dear John Smith:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK260166 - John Smith Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K260166 - John Smith Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Lu Jiang
Lu Jiang, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Diagnostic X-Ray Systems Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K260166
Device Name
Bunkerhill Contrast CAC
Indications for Use (Describe)
Bunkerhill Contrast CAC is a software device intended for use in detecting presence and estimating quantity of coronary
artery calcification for adult patients aged 30 years and above. The device automatically analyzes non-gated, contrast-
enhanced chest computed tomography (CT) images collected during clinical care and outputs the region of interest
(intended for informational purposes only) and quantification of detected calcium.
The output of the subject device is made available to the physician on-demand as part of his or her standard workflow.
The device-generated quantification can be viewed in the patient report at the discretion of the physician, and the
physician also has the option of viewing the device-generated calcium region of interest in a diagnostic image viewer. The
subject device output in no way replaces the original patient report or the original non-gated, contrast-enhanced CT scan;
both are still available to be viewed and used at the discretion of the physician.
The device is intended to provide information to the physician to provide assistance during review of the patient’s case.
Results of the subject device are not intended to be used on a stand-alone basis and are solely intended to aid and provide
information to the physician. In all cases, further action taken on a patient should only come at the recommendation of the
physician after further reviewing the patient’s results.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(K) SUMMARY K260166
Bunkerhilll Contrast CAC
BunkerHill Health
℅ John Smith, Partner
Hogan Lovells US LLP
555 Thirteenth St., NW
Washington, District of Columbia 20004
Phone: (202) 637 3638
Contact Person: John Smith
Date Prepared: February 23, 2026
Proposed Device
Proprietary Name Bunkerhill Contrast CAC
Classification Name Computed tomography x-ray system
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.1750
Product Code JAK
Regulatory Class II
Primary Predicate Device
Proprietary Name iCAC Device
Premarket Notification K230223
Classification Name Computed tomography x-ray system
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.1750
Product Code JAK
Regulatory Class II
Reference Device
Proprietary Name Bunkerhill AVC
Premarket Notification K243229
Classification Name Computed tomography x-ray system
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.1750
Product Code JAK
Regulatory Class II
1Device Description
Bunkerhill Contrast CAC is a software as a medical device (SaMD) product that interfaces with compatible
and commercially available computed tomography (CT) systems. Bunkerhill Contrast CAC detects,
localizes, and quantifies coronary artery calcification volume in non-gated, contrast-enhanced chest CT
studies. The core features of the product are:
• Detection of coronary artery calcification volume at a threshold of 0 mm3.
• Quantification of the overall coronary artery calcification burden in the form of an estimated
volume score.
• Localization of estimated calcium burden in the form of a CAC region of interest applied to a copy
of the original CT scan.
Intended Use / Indications for Use
Bunkerhill Contrast CAC is a software device intended for use in detecting presence and estimating quantity
of coronary artery calcification for adult patients aged 30 years and above. The device automatically
analyzes non-gated, contrast-enhanced chest computed tomography (CT) images collected during clinical
care and outputs the region of interest (intended for informational purposes only) and quantification of
detected calcium.
The output of the subject device is made available to the physician on-demand as part of his or her standard
workflow. The device-generated quantification can be viewed in the patient report at the discretion of the
physician, and the physician also has the option of viewing the device-generated calcium region of interest
in a diagnostic image viewer. The subject device output in no way replaces the original patient report or the
original non-gated, contrast-enhanced CT scan; both are still available to be viewed and used at the
discretion of the physician.
The device is intended to provide information to the physician to provide assistance during review of the
patient’s case. Results of the subject device are not intended to be used on a stand-alone basis and are solely
intended to aid and provide information to the physician. In all cases, further action taken on a patient
should only come at the recommendation of the physician after further reviewing the patient’s results.
Technological Characteristics Comparison:
The subject device, predicate device, and reference device are all intended for use in detecting
presence and estimating quantity calcification. The only difference in intended use between subject
and predicate device is that while the predicate device analyzes non-gated, non-contrast chest CT
images the subject device analyzes non-gated, contrast-enhanced chest CT images. Given the identical
principles of operation and technological characteristics, the differences do not raise any new questions
of safety and effectiveness. Both the subject and predicate device assist the medical professionals in
detecting presence and location of calcifications. Both subject and predicate devices are to aid medical
professionals in viewing and analyzing cardiac computed tomography (CT) data to determine presence
and extent of calcification.
2Table 1: Substantial Equivalence-Intended Use Table
Proposed Device: Predicate Device: Reference: Device:
Bunkerhill Contrast Bunkerhill iCAC Device Bunkerhill AVC (K243229)
CAC (K230223)
Intended use / Indications Bunkerhill Contrast CAC iCAC is a software Bunkerhill AVC is a
for use is a software device device intended for use software device intended for
intended for use in in estimating presence use in detecting presence
detecting presence and and quantity of coronary and estimating quantity of
estimating quantity of artery calcium for aortic valve calcification for
coronary artery patients aged 30 years adult patients aged 40 years
calcification for adult and above during routine and above. The device
patients aged 30 years and care. The device automatically analyzes non-
above. The device automatically analyzes gated, non- contrast chest
automatically analyzes non-gated, non-contrast computed tomography (CT)
non-gated, contrast- chest computed images collected during
enhanced chest computed tomography (CT) images clinical care and outputs the
tomography (CT) images collected during routine region of interest (intended
collected during clinical care and outputs a visual for informational purposes
care and outputs the region representation of only) and quantification of
of interest (intended for estimated coronary artery detected calcium.
informational purposes calcium segmentation
only) and quantification of (intended for The output of the subject
detected calcium. informational purposes device is made available to
only) and both exact and the physician on- demand as
The output of the subject four-category part of his or her standard
device is made available to quantitative estimates of workflow.
the physician on-demand the patient’s coronary
as part of his or her artery calcium burden in The device-generated
standard workflow. The Agatston units. quantification can be
device-generated viewed in the patient report
quantification can be The output of the subject at the discretion of the
viewed in the patient device is made available physician, and the
report at the discretion of to the physician on- physician also has the
the physician, and the demand as part of his or option of viewing the
physician also has the her standard workflow. device- generated calcium
option of viewing the The device generated region of interest in a
device-generated calcium calcium score or score diagnostic image viewer.
region of interest in a group can be viewed in The subject device output
diagnostic image viewer. the patient report at the in no way replaces the
The subject device output discretion of the original patient report or the
in no way replaces the physician, and the original non- gated, non-
original patient report or physician also has the contrast CT scan; both are
the original non-gated, option of viewing the still available to be viewed
contrast-enhanced CT device-generated calcium and used at the discretion of
scan; both are still segmentation in a the physician.
3Proposed Device: Predicate Device: Reference: Device:
Bunkerhill Contrast Bunkerhill iCAC Device Bunkerhill AVC (K243229)
CAC (K230223)
available to be viewed and diagnostic image viewer.
used at the discretion of The subject device output The device is intended to
the physician. in no way replaces the provide information to the
original patient report or physician to provide
The device is intended to the original chest CT assistance during review of
provide information to the scan; both are still the patient’s case.
physician to provide available to be viewed
assistance during review and used at the discretion Results of the subject device
of the patient’s case. of the physician. are not intended to be used on
Results of the subject a stand- alone basis and are
device are not intended to The device is intended to solely intended to aid and
be used on a stand-alone provide information to the provide information to the
basis and are solely physician to provide physician. In all cases, further
intended to aid and assistance during review action taken on a patient
provide information to the of the patient’s case. should only come at the
physician. In all cases, Results of the subject recommendation of the
further action taken on a device are not intended to physician after further
patient should only come be used on a stand-alone reviewing the patient’s
at the recommendation of basis and are solely results.
the physician after further intended to aid and
reviewing the patient’s provide information to the
results. physician. In all cases,
further action taken on a
patient should only come
at the recommendation of
the physician after further
reviewing the patient’s
results.
Summary of Technological Characteristics
• Both the predicate(s) and the subject device use deep-learning algorithms to identify the presence
of calcification and estimate calcification.
• Both devices analyze non-gated chest computed tomography (CT) images that are sent to the
software in DICOM format.
• Both the predicate and the subject device quantify the calcification by generating a metric (an
estimated score).
• Both devices serve as support tools to provide information to the physician. Both can be used on-
demand or optionally by the physician and do not provide a definitive diagnosis. Both devices do
4not replace clinical evaluation and do not alter the standard of care. Both require the physician to
use this information to decide next steps and/or additional diagnostic work up.
• Both devices provide a visual representation of the region of the detected calcification for better
explainability and for the physician to confirm the device output.
• There are no major technological differences between the subject device and predicate device. The
following technological difference exists between the subject and predicate devices:
o The subject device outputs volume in mm3 using a deterministic mathematical formula
based on the raw segmentation maps, while the predicate devices output Agatstons Units
using a deterministic formula based on raw segmentation maps.
o The information-only device output is that while the predicate device displays estimated
calcium segmentation, the subject device shows a visual output in the form of a Region of
Interest (ROI). The rationale behind this was to ensure that the interpreting physician is
able to visualize the underlying calcification. The user has the option to delete the visual
outputs if they do not agree with the results in both the subject and predicate device.
o The subject device does not have a categorical output as coronary artery calcification. This
aspect of the subject device is most similar to the reference device.
Proposed Device: Predicate Device: iCAC Reference Device: Summary
Bunkerhill Contrast CAC (K230223) Bunkerhill AVC (compared to
(K243229) predicate)
Product code JAK JAK JAK Same
Regulation number 21 CFR §892.1750 21 CFR §892.1750 21 CFR §892.1750 Same
Modality Computed tomography Computed tomography Computed Same
(CT) (CT) tomography (CT)
Image format DICOM DICOM DICOM Same
Supported CT Scan Contrast-enhanced, Non- Non-contrast, Non- Non-contrast, Non- Similar
cardiac-gated CT scan cardiac-gated CT scan cardiac-gated CT scan
Slice thickness Up to 5 mm Up to 5 mm Up to 5 mm Same
Calcification Automatic Automatic Automatic Same
detection
Main image DICOM DICOM DICOM Same
quality
Annotation of Yes Yes Yes Same
detected calcium
Visual Output Visual output in the form a Outputs a visual Visual output in the Similar
format Region of Interest or ROI representation of form a Region of
(intended for informational estimated coronary Interest or ROI
purposes only). The artery calcium (intended for
estimated visual output can segmentation (intended informational purposes
5Proposed Device: Predicate Device: iCAC Reference Device: Summary
Bunkerhill Contrast CAC (K230223) Bunkerhill AVC (compared to
(K243229) predicate)
be viewed by the physician for informational only). The estimated
in a diagnostic image purposes only). The visual output can be
viewer. The physician’s estimated calcium viewed by the
standard method for segmentation can be physician in a
viewing unaltered chest CT viewed by the physician diagnostic image
scans in PACS will remain in a diagnostic image viewer. The physician’s
available to them even if viewer. The physician’s standard method for
the subject device is being standard method for viewing unaltered chest
used. However, the viewing unaltered chest CT scans in PACS will
physician will also have an CT scans in PACS will remain available to
option to view the visual remain available to them them even if the subject
output estimated by the even if the subject device is being used.
subject device as a separate device is being used. However, the physician
series within PACS. However, the physician will also have an option
will also have an option to view the visual
to view the calcium output estimated by the
segmentation estimated subject device as a
by the subject device as separate series within
a separate series within PACS.
PACS.
Generate patient Optional to copy result to Optional to copy result Optional to copy result Same
report clipboard, insert in report, to clipboard, insert in to clipboard, insert in
DICOM Secondary report, DICOM report, DICOM
Capture Secondary Capture Secondary Capture
Report of the Yes, estimated calcification Yes, Coronary Yes, estimated exact Similar
calcium score volume (mm3) score and Calcium Detection Agatston-equivalent
binary output Category and exact score and binary output
(presence/absence) Agatston score (presence/absence)
4 detection categories
Type of Adjunctive information Adjunctive information Adjunctive information Same
Interpretation
Intended User Qualified medical Interpreting physicians Qualified medical Same
professionals such as professionals such as
Patient population Patients aged 30 years and Patients above the age Patients above the age Same
above of 30 of 40
Anatomical Chest (Coronary Artery) Chest (coronary artery) Chest (aortic valve) Same
location
Intended location Medical facility Medical facility Medical facility Same
Rx or OTC Rx Rx Rx Same
6Performance Data
Safety and performance of Bunkerhill Contrast CAC has been evaluated and verified in accordance with
software specifications and applicable performance standards through Software Development and
Validation & Verification Process to ensure performance according to specifications, User Requirements
and Federal Regulations and Guidance documents, “Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software
Functions” and Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality System Considerations and Content of
Premarket Submissions.
The Contrast CAC performance was validated in a stand-alone retrospective study for detection,
localization and agreement of the device output compared to the established ground truth. The pivotal
dataset was curated from multiple sites across three geographical regions in the United States. The co-
primary endpoints of Sensitivity and Specificity (Se/Sp), Precision and Recall of the circular ROI and
correlation coefficient were met successfully. The acceptance criteria were derived from the performance
of the predicate device and clinical literature in high impact journals that investigate the inter-reader
agreement of manual segmentation. The co-primary endpoint of a Bland Altman agreement was also
successfully met. The observed bias in the pivotal study was 25.41 mm3 and lower and upper limits
agreements were –249.13 mm3 and 198.32 mm3, respectively. As result, Bunkerhill Contrast CAC met
the mean difference and limits of agreement acceptance criteria, thus satisfying all the endpoints of the
pivotal testing study. The low mean difference demonstrates that Bunkerhill Contrast CAC has a bias of
low magnitude. The observed Sensitivity 0.957 (0.924, 0.991), the observed Specificity was 0.929 (0.882,
0.976), the observed Precision was 0.814 (0.776, 0.850) and the observed Recall was 0.755 (0.712, 0.797).
As a result, Bunkerhill Contrast CAC met all study acceptance criteria.
An additional bridging study comparing the volume generated by the Contrast CAC device on a contrast-
enhanced image to the calcification volume on the same patient calculated on a non-contrast image was
conducted. This study intended to further demonstrate the validity of the Contrast CAC device in detecting
and quantifying coronary artery calcification in patients in line with its intended use. 50 cases were included
in the bridging study. The study met the predefined acceptance criteria with a mean bias of -4.36 mm3 and
LOA of -76.63 mm3 to 67.91 mm3.
The testing demonstrates that the device is substantially equivalent to the predicate as required by 21 CFR
807.92(b)(3) since both the predicate and subject device demonstrated that with the cited mean difference
and limits of agreement, the primary endpoint for calcium score was met.
Conclusions
Bunkerhill Contrast CAC is substantially equivalent to the predicate iCAC Device (K230223) and reference
Bunkerhill AVC (K243229). The subject device has the same intended uses and similar indications,
technological characteristics, and principles of operation as its predicate devices. The minor differences in
indications do not alter the intended diagnostic use of the device and do not affect its safety and
effectiveness when used as labeled. In summary, any minor differences between Bunkerhill Contrast CAC
and the predicate devices do not raise any issues of safety or effectiveness.
7