March 5, 2026
Philips Medical Systems Nederland B.V.
Elena Aizik
Regulatory Affairs Manager
Veenpluis 6
5684 Pc
Best,
Netherlands
Re: K260169
Trade/Device Name: AV Cardiac CT
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.1750
Regulation Name: Computed Tomography X-Ray System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: JAK, QIH
Dated: January 20, 2026
Received: January 20, 2026
Dear Elena Aizik:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK260169 - Elena Aizik Page 2
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K260169 - Elena Aizik Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
for
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director, Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureK260169
510(k) SUMMARY
Philips Medical Systems’ AV Cardiac CT
Company’s Name and Address Philips Medical Systems Nederland B.V.
Veenpluis 6
5684 PC Best
The Netherlands
Contact Person Elena Aizik
Regulatory Affairs Manager
MATAM building 34, Haifa, 3100202, Israel
+972543162610
elena.aizik@philips.com
Date March 4, 2026
Device Trade name AV Cardiac CT
Classification Name System, x-ray, tomography, computed
Primary Product Code JAK
Secondary Product Code QIH
Classification 21 CFR 892.1750, 21 CFR 892.2050
Primary Predicate Device Philips Medical Systems’ Spectral CT Applications (K150665)
Reference Device GE Medical Systems’ CardIQ Suite (K213725)
Device Description AV Cardiac CT is a standalone, software‑only medical device intended for
advanced visualization, post‑processing, and analysis of cardiac computed
tomography (CT) datasets. The software assists qualified medical professionals in
viewing and analyzing gated cardiac CT images to support diagnosis and
follow‑up, as well as review of information in the context of preparation for
cardiac interventions.
AV Cardiac CT includes CT Coronary Analysis and CT Functional Analysis
applications. The device is intended for use in the analysis of coronary artery
anatomy and cardiac function in patients with suspected or diagnosed coronary
artery disease, using gated cardiac CT data, including conventional and spectral
acquisitions.
The device provides visualization, measurement, and post‑processing tools that
enable review of quantitative information derived from CT images. AV Cardiac CT
does not perform automated diagnosis, clinical decision‑making, or treatment
recommendations. All measurements and visualizations are intended to support
physician review; the final clinical interpretation and procedural decisions remain
the responsibility of the qualified healthcare professional.
As part of the CT Coronary Analysis application, AV Cardiac CT provides a
dedicated planning workflow - planning module - that organizes existing
visualization and measurement tools—such as vessel length, diameter, and
approximate C-arm angulation—to support pre-procedural review, such as for
percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). The workflow enables users to review
relevant findings with corresponding anatomical images, determine proximal and
distal landing zones, and save or export measurement values. The planning
workflow does not automate device selection or treatment decisions and is
intended to assist review and preparation, with physician judgment retained.
Key Features and Algorithms
AV Cardiac CT provides basic viewing, processing, and measurement
functionalities for cardiac and coronary CT angiography studies. The software
accepts gated cardiac CT images, with optional ECG data, and generates
automated and user‑defined analysis outputs.
1Automated outputs include cardiac chamber and aortic root segmentation,
coronary artery centerlines, coronary artery labeling, and coronary lumen and
wall segmentation. User‑defined outputs include stenosis and plaque findings,
cardiac function parameters, and CAD‑RADS 2.0 reporting information.
Key features include standard cardiac CT viewing tools, image manipulation and
measurement capabilities, automated segmentation with user review and
editing, and semi‑automatic coronary stenosis and plaque assessment. The
device supports CAD‑RADS 2.0 stenosis categorization and reporting based on
user‑confirmed findings.
Algorithms that are new or updated in the subject device include automated
coronary centerline extraction (with an AI-based step), vessel labeling, and
coronary lumen segmentation. All algorithm outputs are reviewable and editable
by the user, and the device does not perform autonomous clinical interpretation.
Indications for Use The AV Cardiac CT applications are intended to assist the user in viewing,
processing, analysis of CT datasets and in preparation of cardiac interventions.
The CT Coronary Analysis application is indicated to assist radiologists,
cardiologists, and 3D technologists in the analysis of coronary artery anatomy for
patients with suspected or diagnosed cardiac disease including coronary artery
disease.
The CT Functional Analysis application is indicated to assist radiologists,
cardiologists, and 3D technologists in the analysis of heart anatomy and function,
for patients with suspected or diagnosed cardiac diseases.
Verification and Validation Software verification and validation activities were performed to verify that the
software meets the product requirements.
Verification
Verification was performed according to the verification plan. Product
requirement specifications were tested and found meeting the requirements.
Validation
Validation was performed according to the validation plan. User requirement
specifications were tested and found meeting the requirements. The validation
results provide evidence that the product meets its intended use and user
requirements.
Performance Data Performance testing was conducted to evaluate the automated coronary artery
centerline extraction (with AI-based step), major vessel labeling, and the coronary
artery lumen segmentation algorithms. The testing datasets were composed to
represent the targeted US patient population in terms of key demographics,
clinical and technical characteristics.
1. Coronary Artery Centerline Extraction
To validate the performance of centerline extraction, ECG-gated Coronary CT
Angiography (CCTA) scans from 80 patients were collected.
The coronary artery centerlines automatically generated by the algorithm in the
subject device were compared with a reference standard in terms of Overlap
(OV), OV for the clinically relevant part (OT), and average distance (AvgDist).
• Testing Data, Demographics, & Independence from Training Data
The demographic information of the 80 patients included for performance testing
is as follows:
2Demographics Number of patients (percentage)
Geographics North America: 51 (63.75%)
Europe: 19 (38%)
Asia: 10 (12.5%)
Sex Male: 47 (58.75%)
Female: 33 (41.25%)
Age (years) 21-40: 3 (3.75%)
41-50: 4 (5%)
51-60: 11 (13.75%)
61-70: 21 (26.25%)
71-80: 31 (38.75%)
>80: 4 (5%)
Not available: 6 (7.5%)
The performance testing data were collected retrospectively from eight clinical
sites in the US, three hospitals in Europe, and two hospitals in Asia. The algorithm
model was developed with training data collected from completely distinct
clinical sites, ensuring independence between training and testing data. All
testing data were obtained from patients with suspected or confirmed coronary
artery disease, encompassing various stenosis degrees, calcification scores, and
plaque presence. The composed testing data were considered representative of
the intended patient population in the US.
• Reference Standard (i.e., Truthing Process)
For each coronary artery in CCTA images as per the SCCT coronary segment
model, one US-board certified radiologist and two US-board certified
cardiologists (i.e., 3 observers) independently annotated the centerline in a fully
manual manner. The annotation order of the cases was randomized for each
observer to reduce bias. After quality control, per coronary artery, the three
observer-annotated centerlines were averaged as the reference standard.
• Performance & Acceptance Criteria
For the performance metrics (OV, OT, and AvgDist), the acceptance criteria and
performance statistics described as mean and confidence interval (CI) are:
Metrics Acceptance criteria Mean (98.3% CI)
OV >0.80 0.93 (0.90 – 0.95)
OT >0.85 0.94 (0.91 – 0.95)
AvgDist (mm) <0.55 mm 0.35 (0.34 – 0.37) mm
• Clinical Subgroups & Confounders
The performance of centerline extraction was evaluated internally using
independent testing CCTA data acquired with multi-vendor scanners (GE
Healthcare, Siemens, Philips, Toshiba/Canon). The performance metrics (OV, OT,
and AvgDist) were analyzed across subgroups (defined by sex, age group, data
source, dominance, CT type, reconstruction method, CT manufacturer, regional
image artifact, stenosis severity, plaque presence, and calcification scores).
Anomalous major vessel origins, continuous calcification, heavily opacified
coronary veins, and severe motion artifacts may deteriorate the accuracy of the
centerline extraction.
2. Major Vessel Labeling
To validate the labeling accuracy of major coronary arteries, the algorithm-
generated labels were compared with reference labels established by consensus
among three US-board certified observers. The names of major coronary arteries
3can be correctly labelled with an overall sensitivity of 0.91 and precision of 0.97.
The lower bounds of 95% CI of both sensitivity and precision were >0.85.
3. Lumen Segmentation
To validate the performance of coronary artery lumen segmentation, ECG-gated
CCA scans from 80 patients were collected.
The coronary artery lumen automatically generated by the algorithm in the
subject device was compared with a reference standard in terms of Dice similarity
coefficient (DSC), mean surface distance (MSD), and Hausdorff distance (HD).
• Testing Data, Demographics, & Independence from Training Data
The demographic information of the 80 patients included for performance testing
is as follows:
Demographics Number of patients (percentage)
Geographics North America: 68 (85%)
Europe: 12 (15%)
Sex Male: 52 (65%)
Female: 26 (32.5%)
N/A: 2 (2.5%)
Age (years) 21-40: 1 (1.25%)
41-50: 5 (6.25%)
51-60: 8 (10%)
61-70: 24 (30%)
71-80: 32 (40%)
>80: 4 (5%)
Not available: 6 (7.5%)
The testing data for the primary study were retrospectively collected from 7
clinical sites in the US and 3 hospitals in Europe. The algorithm model was
developed with data collected from completely distinct clinical sites, ensuring
independence between training and testing data. All testing data were obtained
from patients with suspected or confirmed coronary artery disease,
encompassing various stenosis degrees, calcification scores, and plaque
presence. The composed testing data were considered representative of the
intended patient population in the US.
• Reference Standard (i.e., Truthing Process)
For each coronary artery in the CCTA, 3 US-board certified observers (radiologists
and cardiologists) independently annotated the lumen contours. The order of the
cases was randomized for each observer to reduce bias. After quality control, for
each coronary artery, the three observer-annotated lumen contours were
averaged as the reference standard.
• Performance & Acceptance Criteria
For the performance metrics (DSC, MSD, HD), the acceptance criteria and
performance statistics described as mean and confidence interval (CI) are:
Metrics Acceptance criteria Median (98.3% CI)
DSC DSC>0.7 0.83 (0.81, 0.84)
MSD [mm] MSD<0.65mm 0.23 (0.22, 0.26) mm
HD [mm] HD<4.0mm 1.45 (1.39, 1.55) mm
• Clinical Subgroups & Confounders
The performance of lumen segmentation was evaluated internally using
independent testing CCTA data acquired with multi-vendor scanners (GE
4Healthcare, Siemens, Philips, Toshiba/Canon). The performance metrics (DSC,
MSD, and HD) were analyzed across subgroups (defined by sex, age group, data
source, dominance, vessel, CT type, reconstruction kernel, CT manufacturer,
vessel-level artifact, stenosis severity, vessel narrowing, plaque presence,
calcification scores, and luminal opacification level). Image artifacts (e.g. motion
artifacts) and insufficient luminal opacification (<250HU) may deteriorate the
accuracy of the lumen segmentation.
Substantial Equivalence AV Cardiac CT is as safe and effective as its predicate device. Both devices have
the same intended use and similar indications for use, technological
characteristics, and principles of operation. The minor technological differences
between AV Cardiac CT and its predicate device raise no new issues of safety or
effectiveness.
Performance data demonstrate that Philips Medical Systems’ AV Cardiac CT is
safe and effective. Thus, AV Cardiac CT is substantially equivalent to Philips
Medical Systems’ Spectral CT Applications, specifically the Spectral enhanced
Comprehensive Cardiac Analysis (sCCA) application. Table 1 below summarizes
the substantive feature/technological similarities and differences between the
subject and predicate devices.
Table 1. Substantial Equivalence
Subject Device Predicate Device Reference device GE Comparis
Medical Systems’ on
Philips Medical Systems' Philips Medical Systems'
CardIQ Suite between
AV Cardiac CT Spectral CT Applications
the
Comparison (K150665)
subject
Feature
and
predicate
(identical/
different)
Device Class Class II Class II Class II Identical
Classification Radiology Radiology Radiology Identical
Panel
Product Code JAK, QIH (subsequent) JAK, LLZ (subsequent) JAK, LLZ (subsequent) Similar
Regulation Computed tomography Computed tomography Computed Identical
Description x-ray system (primary). x-ray system (primary) tomography x-ray
system (primary)
Medical image Medical image
management and management and Medical image
processing system processing system management and
(subsequent). (subsequent) processing system
(subsequent)
Regulation 21 CFR 892.1750 21 CFR 892.1750 21 CFR 892.1750 Identical
Number
21 CFR 892.2050 21 CFR 892.2050 21 CFR 892.2050
5Subject Device Predicate Device Reference device GE Comparis
Medical Systems’ on
Philips Medical Systems' Philips Medical Systems'
CardIQ Suite between
AV Cardiac CT Spectral CT Applications
the
Comparison (K150665)
subject
Feature
and
predicate
(identical/
different)
Indications for The AV Cardiac CT The Philips Spectral CT CardlQ Suite is a non- Different
Use applications are Applications support invasive software
intended to assist the viewing and analysis of application designed
user in viewing, images at energies to provide an
processing, analysis of selected from the optimized application
CT datasets and in available spectrum in to analyze
preparation of cardiac order to provide cardiovascular
interventions. information about the anatomy and
chemical composition of pathology based on
the body materials 2D or 3D CT cardiac
The CT Coronary and/or contrast agents. non contrast and
Analysis application is The Spectral CT angiography DICOM
indicated to assist Applications provide for data from
radiologists, the quantification and acquisitions of the
cardiologists, and 3D graphical display of heart. It provides
technologists in the attenuation, material capabilities for the
analysis of coronary density, and effective visualization and
artery anatomy for atomic number. This measurement of
patients with suspected information may be vessels and
or diagnosed cardiac used by a trained visualization of
disease including healthcare professional
chamber mobility.
coronary artery disease. as a diagnostic tool for
CardlQ Suite also aids
the visualization and
in diagnosis and
analysis of anatomical
determination of
and pathological
The CT Functional
treatment paths for
structures.
Analysis application is
cardiovascular
indicated to assist
The Spectral enhanced diseases to include,
radiologists,
Advanced Vessel coronary artery
cardiologists, and 3D
Analysis (sAVA) disease, functional
technologists in the
application is intended parameters of the
analysis of heart
to assist clinicians in heart, heart
anatomy and function,
viewing and evaluating structures and
for patients with
CT images, for the follow-up for stent
suspected or diagnosed
inspection of contrast- placement, bypasses
cardiac diseases.
enhanced vessels. and plaque imaging.
CardlQ Suite provides
The Spectral enhanced
calcium scoring, a
Comprehensive Cardiac
non-invasive
Analysis (sCCA)
software application,
application is intended
that can be used with
6Subject Device Predicate Device Reference device GE Comparis
Medical Systems’ on
Philips Medical Systems' Philips Medical Systems'
CardIQ Suite between
AV Cardiac CT Spectral CT Applications
the
Comparison (K150665)
subject
Feature
and
predicate
(identical/
different)
to assist clinicians in non-contrasted
viewing and evaluating cardiac images to
cardiovascular CT evaluate calcified
images. plaques in the
coronary arteries,
The Spectral enhanced
heart valves and
Tumor Tracking (sTT)
great vessels such as
application is intended
the aorta. Calcium
to assist clinicians in
Scoring may be used
viewing and evaluating
to monitor the
CT images, for the
progression/regressio
inspection of tumors.
n of calcium in
coronary arteries
overtime, which may
aid in the prognosis
of cardiac disease.
Clinical Characteristics
Intended body Cardiovascular anatomy Cardiovascular anatomy Cardiovascular Identical
part (heart and coronary vess (heart and coronary vess anatomy
els) els) (heart and coronary v
essels)
Type of scans CT scans CT scans CT scans Identical
(conventional and (conventional and
spectral) spectral)
Technological features
DICOM Yes Yes Yes Identical
Coronary Yes Yes Yes Different
artery
Includes new algorithm Includes legacy
segmentation
for centerline extraction algorithms (non-AI) for
including
(CNN - deep learning centerline extraction,
automated
component included), vessel labelling, lumen
centerline
updated vessel labelling
and wall segmentation.
extraction,
algorithm (model based)
vessel
and new lumen
labelling,
segmentation algorithm
lumen, and
(KNN model). In
7Subject Device Predicate Device Reference device GE Comparis
Medical Systems’ on
Philips Medical Systems' Philips Medical Systems'
CardIQ Suite between
AV Cardiac CT Spectral CT Applications
the
Comparison (K150665)
subject
Feature
and
predicate
(identical/
different)
wall addition, includes
segmentation unchanged wall
segmentation algorithm
(non-AI)
CAD‑RADS 2.0 Yes Yes No Different
stenosis
categorization according
categorization
to CAD-RADS 2.0
and structured
standard is new.
reporting
8