May 29, 2026
OrthoGrid Systems, Inc.
Shweta Conner
Regulatory Affairs, Sr. Specialist
7026 S. Commerce Park Dr.
Suite 200
Midvale, Utah 84047
Re: K260077
Trade/Device Name: OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: April 29, 2026
Received: April 29, 2026
Dear Shweta Conner:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.05
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK260077 - Shweta Conner Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact theK260077 - Shweta Conner Page 3
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureI
l ] O v e r-T h e -C o u n te r U s e (2 1 C F R 8 0 1 S u b p a rt a p p lic a b le ). C)
P le a s e s e le c t th e ty p e s o f u s e s (s e le c t o n e o r b o th , a s D ) P re s c rip tio n U s e (2 1 C F R 8 0 1 S u b p a rt
im a g e in te rp re ta tio n . T h e s o ftw a re is n o t fo r u s e o n m o b ile p h o n e s .
C lin ic a l ju d g e m e n t a n d e x p e rie n c e a re re q u ire d to p ro p e rly u s e th e d e v ic e . T h e d e v ic e is n o t fo r p rim a ry
fro m ra d io lo g y im a g e s .
In te llig e n c e w ill o n ly o ffe r a u to m a te d in itia liz a tio n o f g rid p la c e m e n t if th e p o in ts o f in te re s t c a n b e id e n tifie
p o s itio n in g T o ta l H ip R e p la c e m e n t c o m p o n e n ts in tra o p e ra tiv e ly b y m e a s u rin g th e ir p o s itio n s . A rtific ia l
g rid p la c e m e n t re la tiv e to th e b o n e s tru c tu re s o f in te re s t in C -a rm flu o ro s c o p ic im a g e s to a s s is t in p re c is e
R e p la c e m e n t c o m p o n e n ts . T h e s o ftw a re u s e s A rtific ia l In te llig e n c e (A l) to a llo w re a l-tim e in itia liz a tio n o f
O rth o G rid H ip A l® 4 .0 is a n im a g e -p ro c e s s in g s o ftw a re in d ic a te d to a s s is t in th e p o s itio n in g o f T o ta l H ip
[
P le a s e p ro v id e y o u r In d ic a tio n s fo r U s e b e lo w .
O rth o G rid H ip A l® 4 .0
P le a s e p ro v id e th e d e v ic e tra d e n a m e (s ).
te x tb o x w ill b e le ft b la n k fo r o rig in a l a p p lic a tio n s /s u b m is s io n s .
I K 2 6 0 0 7 7
P le a s e ty p e in th e m a rk e tin g a p p lic a tio n /s u b m is s io n n u m b e r, if it is k n o w n . T h is
I
I n d i c a t i o n s f o r U s e
d
ly
I
IK260077
510(k) Summary
In accordance with 21 CFR §807.92 and the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990, the following
information is provided for the OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0 510(k) premarket notification. The
submission was prepared in accordance with the FDA guidance documents, ‘The Special 510k
Program Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff’, issued on September
13, 2019, ‘Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device Guidance for
Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff’, issued on October 25, 2017, and ‘Deciding
When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software Change to an Existing Device Guidance for Industry and
Food and Drug Administration Staff’, issued on October 25, 2017.
Sponsor: OrthoGrid Systems, Inc.
7026 South Commerce Park Drive
Suite 200
Midvale, UT, 84047
Establishment Registration Number: 9617840
Contact Person: Shweta Conner
Regulatory Affairs Sr, Specialist
Telephone: 901-569-3004
Date: May 29, 2026
Subject Device: Trade Name: OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0
Common Name: Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Classification Name:
QIH– Medical Image Management And Processing System
(21 CFR §892.2050)
Predicate Device: Manufacturer Device Name 510(k) Number
OrthoGrid Systems, Inc. PhantomMSK Hip K210136
Device Description and Purpose:
The OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0 is a non-invasive Software as a Medical Device (SaMD) that uses non-
generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) models to analyze fluoroscopic images to aid physicians
with intra-operative implant and anatomic alignment and radiographic alignment for direct anterior
total hip replacement procedures.
Alignment considerations during total hip replacement include pelvic tilt and obliquity, cup
inclination and version, Leg Length and global offset. To assist users with these alignments,
OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0 is an Artificial Intelligence-enabled product that provides digital
annotations and visual guidance points on the fluoroscopic image using anatomic landmarks for
functional pelvic plane tracking, cup positioning, leg length and offset. To operate OrthoGrid Hip
AI® 4.0, a fluoroscopic image is acquired from a C-arm and displayed outside the sterile field,
where the image analysis tools can be used at the user’s discretion.
1OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0 operates on image principles that are compatible with both C-arm Image
Intensifiers and Flat Panel C-arms. OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0 offers radiopaque Calibration Arrays
in 9 and 12-inch sizes as an accessory for correction of fluoroscopic distortion for C-arm Image
Intensifiers. Fluoroscopic distortion is attributed to external electromagnetic interference and the
mapping of the planar image on a curved input phosphor.
OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0 does not include any custom computer hardware, and the software can be
run on a “commercial off-the-shelf” system (i.e. PC, keyboard, mouse, touchscreen monitor etc.)
that meets minimum performance requirements. As part of the System, all required computer
accessories are provided to the customer.
The basis of this submission is the addition of optional non-generative artificial intelligence (AI)
element for detection in fluoroscopic image of anatomic landmarks and objects to provide
automated selection and initialization of measuring tools and pelvic position visual indicator.
Addition of anatomical cup inclination and version angles measurement option per clinical
preference. Introduction of optional ability to save and/or retrieve case specific data via remote or
manual transfer.
Indications for Use:
OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0 is an image-processing software indicated to assist in the positioning of
Total Hip Replacement components. The software uses Artificial Intelligence (AI) to allow real-
time initialization of grid placement relative to the bone structures of interest in C-arm fluoroscopic
images to assist in precisely positioning Total Hip Replacement components intraoperatively by
measuring their positions. Artificial Intelligence will only offer automated initialization of grid
placement if the points of interest can be identified from radiology images.
Clinical judgement and experience are required to properly use the device. The device is not for
primary image interpretation. The software is not for use on mobile phones.
Contraindications:
OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0 may not be suitable for use in cases where clear fluoroscopic images cannot
be obtained, and the clinician is unable to identify key landmarks, such as the Lesser Trochanters
or Teardrops:
• This may be due to patient anatomic abnormalities.
• This may be due to surgical technique, for example, excessive acetabular reaming resulting
in the inability to visualize the radiographic Teardrop.
• This may be due to operating room equipment in use, such as the size of the operating table
limiting the tilt of the C-arm, and therefore the detection of Teardrops.
Substantial Equivalence:
Subject Device Predicate Device
Category OrthoGrid Hip AI 4.0 PhantomMSK Hip Relationship Notes
(K260077) (K210136)
Automated radiological The device is updated as
System, image
Device image processing Similar the subject device uses
processing, radiological
software Artificial Intelligence to
2Subject Device Predicate Device
Category OrthoGrid Hip AI 4.0 PhantomMSK Hip Relationship Notes
(K260077) (K210136)
automatically identify
the anatomical
landmarks, whereas the
predicate device
requires the user to
manually identify and
place points of interest
on fluoroscopic images.
Differences between the
devices do not raise new
questions of safety and
effectiveness and
verification and
validation activities
demonstrate that the
subject device is at least
as safe and effective as
the legally marketed
predicate device.
The product code is
updated to reflect the
subject device’s use of
Artificial Intelligence to
automatically identify
the anatomical
landmarks, whereas the
predicate device
requires the user to
manually identify and
place points of interest
on fluoroscopic images.
Product Code QIH LLZ Similar
Differences between the
devices do not raise new
questions of safety and
effectiveness and
verification and
validation activities
demonstrate that the
subject device is at least
as safe and effective as
the legally marketed
predicate device.
Regulation 21 CFR 892.2050 21 CFR 892.2050 Identical
Medical image Medical image
Regulation
management and management and Identical
Description
processing system processing system
Device Class II II Identical
Classification
Radiology Radiology Identical
Panel
3Subject Device Predicate Device
Category OrthoGrid Hip AI 4.0 PhantomMSK Hip Relationship Notes
(K260077) (K210136)
Image-processing Image-processing
software intended to software intended to
assist in the intra- assist in the intra-
operative positioning of operative positioning of
Intended Use total hip replacement total hip replacement Identical
components during components during
direct anterior total hip direct anterior total hip
arthroplasty (THA) arthroplasty (THA)
procedures. procedures.
OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0 PhantomMSK Hip is an The Indications for Use
is an image-processing image-processing statement has been
software indicated to software indicated to updated to reflect that
assist in the positioning assist in the positioning the subject device
of Total Hip of Total Hip utilizes AI to
Replacement Replacement and Hip automatically identify
components. The Preservation the anatomical
software uses Artificial components. It is landmarks.
Intelligence (AI) to intended to assist in
allow real-time precisely positioning Differences between the
initialization of grid Total Hip Replacement devices do not raise new
placement relative to the and Hip Preservation questions of safety and
bone structures of components effectiveness and
interest in C-arm intraoperatively by verification and
fluoroscopic images to measuring their validation activities
assist in precisely positions relative to the demonstrate that the
positioning Total Hip bone structures of subject device is at least
Replacement interest provided that the as safe and effective as
Indications components points of interest can be the legally marketed
Similar
for Use intraoperatively by identified from predicate device.
measuring their radiology images.
positions. Artificial
Intelligence will only Clinical judgement and
offer automated experience are required
initialization of grid to properly use the
placement if the points device. The device is not
of interest can be for primary image
identified from interpretation. The
radiology images. software is not for use
on mobile phones.
Clinical judgement and
experience are required
to properly use the
device. The device is not
for primary image
interpretation. The
software is not for use
on mobile phones.
A fluoroscopic image is A fluoroscopic image is
acquired from a C-arm acquired from a C-arm
Principle of
by the software and by the software and Identical
Operation
displayed outside the displayed outside the
sterile field, where the sterile field, where the
4Subject Device Predicate Device
Category OrthoGrid Hip AI 4.0 PhantomMSK Hip Relationship Notes
(K260077) (K210136)
image analysis tools can image analysis tools can
be used at the surgeon’s be used at the surgeon’s
discretion. discretion.
Uses intraoperative Uses intraoperative
Image
fluoroscopic images fluoroscopic images Identical
Modality
acquired from a C-arm. acquired from a C-arm.
Summary of Nonclinical Performance Data:
Verification and Validation Testing for OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0 was conducted with the following
aspects:
• Performance Tests: Performance tests documented to ensure the performance of the
implemented features and verify related design inputs.
• Usability Engineering: Performance of the system in regard to human factors engineering.
• Validation: Validation performed to validate related user needs, intended use and
substantial equivalence.
• Software Testing: Software tests were conducted to satisfy requirements of the FDA
Guidance for the Content Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical
Devices and IEC 62304 (Medical Device Software- Life Cycle Process). The software was
considered a “Enhanced” level of concern. The testing demonstrates the subject device
OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0 does not raise any new issues of safety and effectiveness as
compared to the predicate device.
• Cybersecurity Testing: Cybersecurity tests were conducted and successfully met
requirements per FDA Guidance “Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality Management
System Considerations and Content of Premarket Submissions”.
Description of AI Functionality and its Integration in the System:
The OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0 system incorporates Machine Learning (ML) models that operate on
2D fluoroscopic images to support intraoperative AP Pelvis and AP Hip workflows. The AI models
identify landmarks, anatomy, and Total Hip Arthroplasty (THA) implants, which are used to
initialize software functions within the system.
These AI outputs are used to automatically initialize software tools that assist with:
• Leg length and offset measurements.
• Cup version and Cup inclination measurements using the trans-teardrop reference line.
• Scene identification to assist workflow progression.
• Anatomic orientation/alignment and positioning within an image.
• Femoral shaft alignment for the AP Hip workflow Overlay feature.
User Control and Override:
The detected scene type can be manually overridden by the user at any time. All AI-identified
landmarks that impact system measurements are visible and fully editable, allowing the user to
5manually adjust landmark positions in real time at any stage of the procedure. The system
automatically updates measurements and calculations immediately based on the user’s input.
The OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0 outputs are intended to assist, not replace, professional clinical
judgment. The operating physician is responsible for reviewing, verifying, and as needed,
adjusting all AI-identified landmarks and AI-driven measurements, and retains full responsibility
for final clinical decisions.
ML Models Input/Output:
The ML models’ input is a 2D fluoroscopic intra-operative anteroposterior (AP) or near AP image
showing the pelvis and/or proximal femur, captured from compatible C-Arm systems.
The models generate either segmentation of relevant anatomy (femur) or implant (cup, stem) or
landmark positions (e.g., Teardrops, Lesser Trochanters).
ML model outputs are transformed into user-controllable elements, such as landmark positions
(e.g., AP landmarks and cup landmarks), femur axis alignment, and inputs used for initial scene
selection. These elements are presented to the user at the appropriate workflow stage. Users can
interact with these elements, which can be reviewed and manually adjusted as needed to ensure
clinical accuracy.
Model Architecture:
The OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0 ML models use deep learning architectures, including Convolutional
Neural Networks (CNNs) and Transformer-based models. CNN- and Transformer-based models
are used for anatomy and implant segmentation, while Transformer-based models are used for
landmark detection. All models are optimized for analysis of 2D fluoroscopic images to support
landmark identification and anatomy and implant segmentation.
Model Development Summary:
The OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0 system incorporates Machine Learning (ML) models trained, and
tested using real-world, de-identified fluoroscopic images collected from five geographically
distinct clinical sites within the United States. The data reflect THA procedures and capture the
complexity of intraoperative imaging and realistic surgical conditions consistent with the device’s
intended use.
The ML models were developed using real THA fluoroscopic images. No synthetic images were
used. Table 1 summarizes the datasets used for each OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0 models, including
the number of patients, number of images, and the approximate percentage of data used for
training, tuning, and tuning evaluation (held out for technical performance testing) to ensure
objective evaluation and reliable model performance.
Table 1: AI Models Development Dataset. Tuning Evaluation sets were held out from training.
ML Model # Patients # Images Training, Tuning, Tuning Evaluation (% of Patients)
Landmark 301 15990 84% – 6% – 10%
Implant 389 16476 82% – 6% – 12%
Femur 502 23484 76% – 12% – 12%
6In addition to technical performance testing on tuning evaluation datasets, the AI models were
clinically validated using cadaveric specimens with known demographic characteristics. These
images were captured under controlled simulated THA surgical conditions to reflect the intended
clinical environment.
ML Model Performance on Tuning Evaluation Dataset:
The AI models were evaluated on the tuning evaluation dataset, and the results for the tested
sample within the study conditions are summarized in Table 2 in terms of Accuracy, Sensitivity
and Specificity.
Table 2 : Reference VS AI Predictions – ML Models: Accuracy, Sensitivity, and Specificity
Sample size N
ML Model Accuracy ± STD Sensitivity Specificity
(Patients, Images)
Left & Right Teardrop N= (29, 1542), study
1.6 ± 2.1 100% 99%
(Pixel) conditions
Left & Right Lesser N= (29, 1542), study
2.8 ± 4.5 98% 96%
Trochanter (Pixel) conditions
N= (45, 1923), study
Implant 95 ± 5% 100% 99%
conditions
N= (60, 2393), study
Femur 98 ± 3% 100% 100%
conditions
Notes:
• Accuracy: Indicates how closely AI predictions match the reference. Evaluated using
distance differences for landmarks or the spatial overlap for implant and anatomy models.
• Sensitivity (Recall): Reflects the ability of the AI to correctly identify true landmarks or
anatomy or implant.
• Specificity: Reflects the ability of the AI to correctly ignore areas where landmarks or
anatomy or implant is absent.
• Sample size N: Values are presented as (number of patients, number of images)
ML Model Performance on Clinical Validation Dataset:
ML Models Outputs
The performance of the three integrated ML models’ outputs was evaluated against clinical Ground
Truth (GT) generated by three qualified orthopedic surgeons, whose inter-surgeon error variability
was quantified to establish the validation threshold. This threshold is based on typical differences
observed between surgeons’ measurements, defined as the value below which 97.5% of these
differences fall, representing the natural range of clinical measurement variability. AI models were
considered validated when their mean error, calculated with respect to the GT, remained at or
below this value. The tuning and evaluation datasets included: Landmark and Implant Models: 84
THA surgical cases, 342 images; Anatomy Model: 51 THA surgical cases, 182 images.
All measures met the validation criteria for the tested sample size and study conditions,
demonstrating that the AI outputs are consistent, reliable, and fall within the variability range of
7the observed errors among surgeons in clinical settings as reported in Table 3. The detection rate
(i.e. Sensitivity) of all AI models was 100% under study conditions.
Table 3: Manual vs AI Predictions – Global Average Results Compared to Surgeon Ground Truth for Evaluated
Measures (Teardrops, Lesser Trochanters, Cup Positioning, and Femur Alignment Angles)
Mean Error Agreement Rate Sample size N
Measure Validation Threshold
(Accuracy) ± STD AI vs Manual (cases, images)
N= (84, 253), study
0.95 ± 0.73 (Right) 3.70 100%
conditions
Teardrop (mm)
N= (84, 245), study
0.64 ± 0.49 (Left) 3.22 100%
conditions
N= (84, 189), study
2.02 ± 1.35 (Right) 4.84 100%
Lesser Trochanter
conditions
(mm) N= (84, 199), study
1.54 ± 1.16 (Left) 3.77 100%
conditions
N= (84, 255), study
Cup Version (°) 1.38 ± 0.95 3.48 100%
conditions
N= (84, 255), study
Cup Inclination (°) 0.44 ± 0.43 2.42 100%
conditions
Femur Alignment N= (51, 182), study
1.27 ± 0.88 2.85 98.04%
Angle (°) conditions
Notes:
• Mean Error: Difference between AI predictions and manual ground truth, where the
ground truth is defined as the average measurement from the three surgeons.
The AI models were clinically validated in a statistical study using data that may not fully represent
all patient populations. Key demographic representation included:
• Gender: 57% female, 43% male
• Age: Concentrated in 60–79 (61%); limited representation under 50 (7%)
• C-Arm detector size: Most commonly 12-inch (40.5%), with smaller proportions of
9-inch (26.2%) and flat-panel detectors (33.3%)
The results showed that the AI models met the predefined performance criteria, with a statistical
strength of 95% confidence and 90% reliability, and no systematic deviations were observed across
the evaluated factors.
Performance results along with other factors were also collected and reported, including:
• BMI: Concentrated under 25 (61%), with limited representation over 35 (4.5%).
• Ethnicity: Predominantly White (90.5%), with limited representation of Asian (2.4%) and
Hispanic (7.1%) participants.
• Bone disease: Most common condition is arthritis (29.8%), with smaller representation of
osteoporosis (14.3%).
8While some of these additional subgroups had limited sample sizes and could not support
statistically significant conclusions, the data was carefully reviewed and ML model performance
remained consistent, as no systematic bias or performance degradation was observed across these
categories, supporting confidence in the overall AI performance results. However, performance in
underrepresented populations has not been independently validated. Physicians should exercise
due judgment when interpreting AI outputs for patients whose characteristics differ substantially
from the validation dataset.
AI Integrated with OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0:
A total of 102 paired system output measurements were compared between fully automatic AI
outputs and manually adjusted measurements all using different workflows, AP Pelvis or AP Hip
workflows (Ipsilateral or Contralateral).
Of these, 89.2% were concordant, while 10.8% showed some degree of discrepancy. The
maximum observed differences were ≤ 3 mm for Leg Length and Offset measurements and ≤ 1°
for Cup inclination and anteversion angles. This demonstrates a high degree of surgeon agreement
with AI predictions, supporting confidence in model performance under studied conditions.
ML Models Limitations:
AI performance characteristics were established under controlled validation study conditions and
the intended use environment. Actual clinical performance may vary depending on factors such
patient anatomy, surgical technique, and intraoperative conditions. Atypical imaging
conditions/positions, including landmarks near image boundaries or partially outside the field of
view, unusual occlusions, or poor image quality (e.g., blurred, contrast) may result in inaccurate
or failed landmarks detection.
AI Performance Monitoring:
The ML Models are locked/frozen and do not engage in continuous or adaptive learning once
deployed. The locked model design ensures consistent, validated performance characteristics
throughout the product lifecycle.
OrthoGrid Hip AI® 4.0 ML performance is monitored after release. Updates to the ML models
may be applied through a controlled software change, including a full software version update,
when supported by new data or validated findings.
Conclusion:
The conclusions drawn from the nonclinical testing demonstrate that the device is as safe, as
effective, and performs as well or better than the legally marketed predicate device, PhantomMSK
Hip (K210136).
9