June 3, 2026
Wave Neuroscience
Leslie Prichep, PhD
Chief Scientist
1601 Dove St.
Suite 205
Newport Beach, California 92660
Re: K260402
Trade/Device Name: MeRT System
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 882.5802
Regulation Name: Transcranial magnetic stimulation system for neurological and psychiatric disorders
and conditions
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: SIG
Dated: February 5, 2026
Received: February 6, 2026
Dear Dr. Prichep:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.05
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK260402 - Leslie Prichep, PhD Page 2
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).K260402 - Leslie Prichep, PhD Page 3
Sincerely,
ROBERT KANG -S
for Pamela Scott
Assistant Director
DHT5B: Division of Neuromodulation and
Physical Medicine Devices
OHT5: Office of Neurological and
Physical Medicine Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
Enclosure510(k) Summary
This summary of 510(k) safety and effectiveness is submitted in accordance with the requirements
of 21 CFR §807.92.
Sponsor: Wave Neuroscience
1601 Dove St STE 205
Newport Beach, CA 92660
Contact: Leslie S. Prichep, PhD, Chief Scientific Officer
Date Prepared: June 2, 2026
Trade Name: MeRT System
Common Name: Transcranial magnetic stimulation system for neurological and
psychiatric disorders and conditions
Classification: II
Regulation: 21 CFR 882.5802
Product Code: SIG
Predicate Device: K251119 MagVenture TMS Therapy System
Description of Device:
The MeRT (Magnetic EEG/ECG Resonance Therapy) System has two components: the MRT-005
machine learning -derived algorithm designed to analyze resting-state eyes-closed
electroencephalogram/electrocardiogram (EEG/ECG) data to derive personalized stimulation
frequency parameters for use with the second component, Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation
(TMS) devices.
The system derives a recommended individualized pulse rate within the range of 8-13 Hz. This
personalized frequency parameter is then used to individualize the TMS treatment settings for
neuromodulation.
MRT-005 software does not generate or apply magnetic stimulation but provides computed
treatment parameters to a compatible legally marketed TMS device for delivery of treatment.
Intended Use: The MeRT System is intended to be used as a TMS system for neurological and
psychiatric disorders and conditions.
MeRT System 510(k) Summary 1 of 10Indications for Use: The MeRT System is intended to be used as an adjunct for the treatment of
adult patients suffering from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).
Comparison to Predicate Device:
The MeRT System has the same intended use and technological characteristics, and falls within
the same 21 CFR § 882.5802 regulation as the predicate device, MagVenture TMS Therapy
System for OCD (K251119). Both the predicate and subject devices have the same technological
characteristics related to the associated TMS stimulator, electromagnetic coil, articulated arm (for
positioning of the treatment coil) and proprietary software. Further, the operational aspects
associated with patient treatment, including system setup, patient preparation, motor threshold
determinations, coil positioning and predefined treatment stimulation parameters are essentially
the same. In regard to the MeRT System’s indications for use, post-traumatic stress disorder
(“PTSD”) is a neurological and psychiatric disorder or condition, as is obsessive compulsive
disorder (“OCD”) associated with the predicate device’s indications for use. There is extensive
evidence of similar underlying neurophysiological mechanisms of action in the two disorders,
suggesting the potential for similar response to neuromodulation. The differences in design and
indications for use when comparing the MeRT System and the cited predicate are not significant
and do not result in differing questions of safety and effectiveness. As can be seen in the table
below, the identical performance specifications can be found in the TMS Stimulator, coils for
motor threshold determination and treatment coil, power source, pulse type, pulse width, cooling,
max coil temperature, peak magnetic field strength, peak magnetic field gradient. Differences in
performance specifications arise in the treatment protocol pulse rate per session, as the subject
device personalizes the treatment protocol introducing individualized selection which results in
delivery of a range of pulses per session dependent on the derived personalized treatment pulse
rate. All special controls associated with 21 CFR § 882.5802 have been fulfilled and the safety and
effectiveness of the MeRT System is supported by outcomes of the Randomized Controlled Trial.
A comparison of the subject and predicate devices is presented in the following table.
Table 1. Comparison of Subject and Predicate Devices
Element of Subject Device: MeRT MagVenture TMS Comparison to Predicate
Comparison System Therapy System for
K260402 OCD K251119
ELEMENTS OF INTENDED USE
Transcranial magnetic Transcranial magnetic
stimulation system for stimulation system for
Intended Use neurological and neurological and Same
psychiatric disorders psychiatric disorders
and conditions and conditions.
MeRT System 510(k) Summary 2 of 10Similar, PTSD and OCD are
both neurological or
psychiatric disorders or
The MagVenture TMS
conditions. Each indication
Therapy system is
The MeRT System is is supported by clinical
intended to be used as
intended to be used as evidence of
an adjunct for the
an adjunct for the neuromodulation and there
treatment of adult
Indications for Use treatment of adult are no new questions of
patients suffering
patients suffering from safety or effectiveness.
Post Traumatic Stress Clinical evidence of
from Obsessive-
Disorder (PTSD). effectiveness, combined
Compulsive Disorder
with verification and
(OCD).
validation data fulfill the
special controls and support
substantial equivalence.
Prescription or Prescription (Rx) use Prescription (Rx) use Same
OTC only only
Use Environment Healthcare (Clinical) Healthcare (Clinical) Same
environment environment
TMS Delivery Delivered by Delivered by Same, both systems are
MagVenture TMS MagVenture controlled by system
device, controlled by TMS device, software to deliver TMS
system software controlled by system treatment. The subject
configured per MRT- software within range device introduces an
005 algorithm derived of predefined treatment algorithm to derive
treatment protocol, parameters. recommended treatment
operating within the protocols used to configure
MagVenture range of the TMS device to deliver
parameters. treatment within the
equipment’s inherent range
of treatment parameters.
Target Population Adult Adult Same
Treatment Weeks 1-5: Weeks 1-5: Same. Identical for weeks 1-
Schedule 4, for a total of 20-25
1 Treatment session per 1 Treatment session
sessions. The predicate uses
day for 5 days per day for 5 days
an additional week of 4-8
sessions.
Total 20-25 treatment Total 25 treatment
sessions sessions
Week 6: 1 treatment
session per day for 4
days
MeRT System 510(k) Summary 3 of 10Total 4-8 additional
sessions
Area of the brain Dorsomedial prefrontal Left Dorsomedial Same. MeRT is midline
to be stimulated cortex prefrontal cortex stimulation of the same
regions as the predicate
device.
TECHNOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS
• MeRT software
• TMS Stimulator
Same. MeRT System adds
(web application,
with system
the MeRT software
driver)
software and GUI
components. The MeRT
• TMS Stimulator
• Coil for motor
Main System System’s compatible TMS
with system software
threshold
Components Stimulator, coils for motor
and GUI
determination
threshold determination and
• Coil for motor
• Treatment coil treatment coil are identical
threshold
to the predicate device.
determination
• Treatment coil
Similar – The subject device
personalizes the treatment
protocol within a range,
while the predicate device
Fixed 10 Hz protocol delivers a fixed treatment
Personalized TMS or Fixed theta burst (3 frequency. Pulse rate range
Treatment Protocol pulse rate (8–13 Hz) via pulses at 50Hz) of the MeRT System is
Pulse Rate derivation from EEG within range of the predicate
analysis TMS capabilities (0.1-30 for
MagPro R30 and 0.1-100 for
MagPro X100 Hz); MeRT
System introduces
individualized selection to
enhance clinical targeting.
Similar. The magnetic field
Magnetic field intensity of the subject
80% of MT 100% of MT
intensity device is below that of the
predicate.
Repetition Rate 8-13 Hz 10 Hz Similar
Train duration 6 sec 4 sec Similar
Inter-train interval 54 sec 26 sec Similar
No. Of trains 30 75 Similar
Similar. MeRT System has a
Pulses per session 1440-2340 3000
range of pulses per session
dependent on the
MeRT System 510(k) Summary 4 of 10personalized treatment
frequency.
Session duration 30 min 36.5 min Similar
Figure-of-eight design Figure-of-eight design
Coil Type with dual windings and with dual windings and Same
an air core. an air core.
Depending on coil
variant:
2x75mm
Windings 2x75mm Same
2x97mm
2x95mm
Pulse type Biphasic Biphasic Same
Pulse width 290µs (±5%) 290µs (±5%) Same
Cooling Forced liquid cooling Forced liquid cooling Same
Max coil
43°C 43°C Same
temperature
Power supply Power supply
Power Source Same
Mobile console: Mobile console:
110Vac, 20A 110Vac, 20A
Same. The MRT-005
algorithm recommended
R30: 0.1-30 Hz
Frequency range at treatment protocol pulse
8-13Hz
100% frequency is within the
X100: 0.1-100 Hz
range of the predicate
device.
Same. The MeRT System
range of %MT is within the
Range of % MT 80% 0-140%
range of the predicate
device.
Pulse train Similar, well within the
duration range 6 1-33 range of stimulation of the
(sec) predicate device.
Available Range from 0-2.2 SMT Range from 0-2.2 SMT
stimulation in depending on coil depending on coil Same
terms of SMT capabilities capabilities
Peak magnetic Range from 0.46-0.55T Range from 0.46-
field strength (T) depending on coil 0.55T depending on Same
at a depth of 2 cm capabilities coil capabilities
MeRT System 510(k) Summary 5 of 10Peak magnetic
Range from 9-12 kT/s Range from 9-12 kT/s
field gradient
depending on coil depending on coil Same
dB/dt (kT/s) at a
capabilities capabilities
depth of 2cm
Similar. Personalized
EEG/ECG data represents
additional information upon
which treatment is based.
Personalized EEG/ECG-
EEG Integration + EEG data integrated for Fixed EEG frequency
driven protocol introduces
TMS Protocol personalized frequency data, not personalized
no new risks; validated
through software
verification and clinical
rationale and demonstrated
in clinical study.
Delivers TMS Delivers TMS Same, both systems deliver
Output
stimulation. stimulation TMS stimulation.
Different – MeRT is cloud-
Cloud Hosting based with secure, validated
AWS Cloud On-device hardware
Environment infrastructure; predicate is
hardware-integrated.
MeRT addresses
Encrypted data,
cybersecurity via best
Cybersecurity HIPAA-compliant Not applicable
practices; not relevant to
cloud services
predicate device design.
Adds decision-support
Proprietary IAF capability; validated and
detection and frequency tested for safe
Algorithm Not applicable
selection derived from implementation and
EEG clinically tested for safety
and effectiveness.
MeRT requires
interoperability between the
MeRT software components
Interfaces with to the compatible TMS
Self-contained TMS
Interoperability compatible legally system; predicate device
system
marketed TMS devices contains integrated
components. Interoperability
is demonstrated through
verification and validation.
Same – PTSD and OCD are
PTSD symptom OCD symptom neurological and psychiatric
Clinical Target reduction (e.g., PCL-5 reduction (e.g., Y- disorders and conditions,
improvement) BOCS) with the same underlying
pathophysiology. Both
devices target patients in
MeRT System 510(k) Summary 6 of 10this population to decrease
symptoms.
TMS Patient
Coil in contact with Coil in contact with
Contacting Same
scalp scalp
Components
The MRT-005 algorithm
assesses an EEG file,
EEG Patient acquired using a legally
EEG headset and
Contacting Not applicable marketed EEG device, to
electrodes
Components generate recommended
personalized TMS treatment
protocol.
Same – MeRT System and
the TMS device both follow
Software IEC 62304 compliant, IEC 62304 compliant,
standard software lifecycle
Validation fully validated fully validated
and risk management
processes.
Same – Both demonstrate
Clinical performance,
Safety & Electromagnetic and safety and effectiveness
interoperability,
Performance Data clinical testing within non-clinical and
algorithm validation
clinical workflows.
Nonclinical Testing Summary:
The following performance data are provided in support of the substantial equivalence
determination between the subject device, MeRT System, to the predicate device, K251119
MagVenture TMS Therapy System.
• Software verification and validation
• Integration testing demonstrates interoperability between MeRT software and compatible
TMS devices
• Electrical Safety and Electromagnetic Compatibility Evaluation
• Usability Evaluation
Clinical Testing Summary:
A Prospective, Double Blind, Randomized Sham-Controlled, Clinical Trial to Evaluate the Safety
and Effectiveness of Biometrics-Guided Magnetic EEG-Resonance Therapy (MeRT) Treatment of
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
The escalating prevalence of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) in both military and civilian
populations has become a critical public health issue. Currently, the standard of care for treatment
of PTSD includes pharmacological and psychotherapeutic interventions; however, these
demonstrate only modest effectiveness and are frequently associated with treatment-limiting
adverse effects. At present, there is no FDA-cleared medical device for PTSD that has the rigor of
MeRT System 510(k) Summary 7 of 10a double-blind, randomized, sham-controlled trial to treat this debilitating condition. There is an
urgent need for innovative, effective, non-pharmacologic treatment options for PTSD patients that
offer favorable safety profiles compared with pharmacologic approaches to address this
underserved patient population. In November 2024, Wave Neuroscience received FDA
Breakthrough Device Designation, recognizing the potential for treatment with the MeRT
(Magnetic EEG/ECG Resonance Therapy) System to address this unmet need.
The MRT-005 algorithm derives the individual’s alpha pulse rate using EEG/ECG data with the
goal of enhancing clinical targeting. This approach individualizes TMS parameters based on
endogenous oscillatory characteristics as identified by the MRT-005 algorithm. By aligning
stimulation frequency with each individual’s alpha pulse rate using the MRT-005 algorithm, the
system is designed to engage frequency-dependent neuromodulatory mechanisms and support
normalization of brain function patterns and decrease symptom severity associated with PTSD.
The pivotal trial was designed to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the MeRT System as a
whole, and was not structured to isolate the independent contribution of EEG-guided frequency
selection relative to TMS delivered at a fixed frequency. As such, the relative contribution of the
individualized frequency parameter to the observed treatment outcomes was not part of the study
design.
The safety and effectiveness of treatment with the MeRT System was evaluated in a recently
completed multi-site double-blind, randomized, sham-controlled pivotal trial, the results of which
were presented in support of FDA clearance. The trial included adults (≥18 years) with a diagnosis
of PTSD using the CAPS-5 and with a symptom severity score ≥30 on the PCL-5. The Intention
to Treat (ITT) population included 158 participants, 77 of whom were assigned to the active
treatment group and 81 to the sham treatment group. The study protocol included 20-25 treatment
sessions (active or sham). Overall, 84% of the participants completed treatment.
The analysis of results demonstrated that active treatment with MeRT led to a statistically
significant improvement in PTSD symptom severity compared with sham treatment. Treatment
effects were consistent across both self-administered and clinician-administered PTSD outcome
measures: the PTSD Checklist for DSM-5 (PCL-5; p < 0.046) and the Clinician-Administered
PTSD Scale for DSM-5 (CAPS-5; p < 0.0006). The PCL-5, a self-administered scale, was the
study’s primary outcome measure largely due to its ease of use across multiple time points. The
CAPS-5 was used both to confirm PTSD diagnosis for study inclusion and as a prespecified
secondary outcome measure of the change in PTSD symptom severity. Analysis of CAPS-5 results
was performed after the primary PCL-5 endpoint showed statistical significance. In this study, the
CAPS-5 showed an even stronger ability than the PCL-5 to demonstrate the significance of the
treatment effect of the MeRT System.
MeRT System 510(k) Summary 8 of 10The absolute magnitude of the active group pre-post treatment improvement (27 points) for the
PCL-5 main outcome substantially exceeded the Department of Veterans Affairs, National Center
for PTSD estimate of the minimal clinically important difference (MCID) of 8.5 to 12.5 points.
The observed statistically significant differences between the active and sham groups represented
a treatment effect size of approximately -0.32 in the PCL-5 and –0.51 in the CAPS-5 severity score.
These are squarely within the upper range of the estimated treatment effect sizes for the two FDA-
approved pharmacologic interventions for PTSD, which range from approximately -0.30 to -0.56.
Interpretation of clinical meaningfulness was informed by the FDA Patient Reported Outcomes
guidance which states that clinically meaningful change thresholds are anchored at the individual
level, defined as the smallest within-person change patients perceive as beneficial, and that are not
intended as required between group differences. Consistent with this, the National Center for
PTSD suggested PCL-5 point change threshold applies to within-person improvement in actively
treated individuals, not between-group difference. In this trial, the magnitude of within-group
improvement in the active treatment arm substantially exceeded established individual-level
thresholds for clinically meaningful change.
Exploratory EEG analyses suggest a relationship between changes in posterior coherence and
change in symptom severity in the active but not in the sham group, supporting changes in brain
function in the active treatment group only. Post-hoc analyses demonstrated that the significant
decrease in the PCL-5 score observed immediately post-treatment continued to improve during the
follow-up period extending 2-4 months, supporting persistence of the effectiveness demonstrated
in the active group. Additional post-hoc analyses defined remission using post-treatment CAPS-5
scores based on established criteria (as in K180173). Using this criteria, a significant difference
was found between the active and sham groups (p < 0.008), with greater remission in the active
group. At F2, 68.2% of participants in the active group met criteria for remission.
At the agency’s suggestion, a post-hoc analysis of the relationship between outcome and pulse
rate/session was conducted, dividing the full range of pulse rates derived for the active population
into thirds (Low, Medium and High pulses/session groups). No significant differences were found
between groups stratified by pulses/session for the PCL-5 or the CAPS; however, the Low pulse
group (n=7) was underpowered, which limits conclusions in this subgroup. Importantly, the
absence of a statistically significant treatment effect in this stratum should not be interpreted as
evidence of equivalence between the individualized frequency (8-13 Hz) to a fixed frequency, as
non-significance in an underpowered subgroup cannot be equated with established equivalence.
The results of this post-hoc data analysis do not alter the overall safety and effectiveness
conclusions from the Clinical Trial which was supported by the statistically significant results
observed in the ITT population.
MeRT System 510(k) Summary 9 of 10Post-hoc stratified analyses also revealed that the comparison of CAPS-5 outcomes between the
High and Medium pulse frequency strata approached statistical significance (p=0.067). While this
difference did not reach the conventional threshold for significance, it is reported here in the
interest of a complete and transparent account of the stratified analyses. This finding does not alter
the overall safety and effectiveness conclusions, which remain supported by the statistically
significant results observed in the ITT population.
With respect to safety, there were no statistically significant differences between the active and
sham treatment groups, with a similar number of participants reported Treatment-Emergent
Adverse Events (TEAEs); and a similar total number of TEAEs reported in both treatment groups.
There was no serious adverse event in this study. Based on zero serious adverse events in the
active treatment group, the upper bound of the 95% confidence interval for the serious adverse
event rate is estimated to be less than 4%.
The results of this trial support that treatment with the MeRT System is associated with statistically
significant and clinically meaningful reductions in PTSD symptom severity, with a very favorable
safety profile. These results highlight the potential of the MeRT System to add an innovative, safe,
effective, non-pharmacological treatment option for the PTSD population.
Conclusions:
The MeRT System and predicate device, MagVenture TMS Therapy System (K251119) are
substantially equivalent with respect to intended use, safety and performance. All applicable
special controls associated with 21 CFR § 882.5802 have been fulfilled and the safety and
effectiveness of the MeRT System is supported by outcomes of the Randomized Controlled Trial.
In accordance with 21 CFR § 807.100(b), the subject device and the predicate, cleared by FDA
and legally marketed in the United States, are substantially equivalent.
MeRT System 510(k) Summary 10 of 10