March 13, 2026
Canon Medical Systems Corporation
℅ Yoshiaki Cook
Sr. Manager, Regulatory Affairs
Canon Medical Systems, USA
2441 Michelle Dr.
TUSTIN, CA 92780
Re: K260078
Trade/Device Name: Aquilion Serve SP (TSX-307B) V2.0
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.1750
Regulation Name: Computed tomography x-ray system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: JAK
Dated: January 9, 2026
Received: January 12, 2026
Dear Yoshiaki Cook:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.04
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK260078 - Yoshiaki Cook Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K260078 - Yoshiaki Cook Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Lu Jiang
Lu Jiang, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Diagnostic X-Ray Systems Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALT H AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: 0MB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 06/30/2023
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
51 0(k) Number (if known)
K260078
Device Name
Aquilion Serve SP (TSX-307B) V2.0
Indications for Use (Describe)
This device is indicated to acquire and display cross sectional volumes of the whole body, to include the head.
The Aquilion Serve SP has the capability to provide volume sets. These volume sets can be used to perform specialized
studies, using indicated software/hardware, by a trained and qualified physician.
AiCE (Advanced Intelligent Clear‐ IQ Engine) is a noise reduction algorithm that improves image quality and reduces
image noise by employing Deep Convolutional Neural Network methods for abdomen, pelvis, lung, cardiac, extremities,
head and inner ear applications.
PIQE is a Deep Learning Reconstruction method designed to enhance spatial resolution. By incorporating noise reduction
into the Deep Convolutional Neural Network (DCNN), it is possible to achieve both spatial resolution improvement and
noise reduction for cardiac, abdomen, pelvis, and lung applications, in comparison to FBP and hybrid iterative
reconstruction.
CLEAR Motion is a Deep Learning Reconstruction (DLR) method designed to reduce motion artifacts. A Deep
Convolutional Neural Network (DCNN) is used to estimate the patient's motion. This information is used in the
reconstruction process to obtain lung images with less motion artifacts.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
IZI D
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
"An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid 0MB number."
FORM FDA 3881 (6120) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFK260078
510(k) SUMMARY
1. SUBMITTER’S NAME:
Junichiro Araoka
Senior Manager, Quality Assurance Department
Canon Medical Systems Corporation
1385 Shimoishigami
Otawara-Shi, Tochigi-ken, Japan 324-8550
2. ESTABLISHMENT REGISTRATION:
9614698
3. OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENT/CONTACT PERSON:
Yoshiaki Cook
Sr. Manager, Regulatory Affairs
Canon Medical Systems USA, Inc
2441 Michelle Drive
Tustin, CA 92780
(657)270-5595
4. DATE PREPARED:
January 09, 2026
5. TRADE NAME(S):
Aquilion Serve SP (TSX-307B) V2.0
6. COMMON NAME:
System, X-ray, Computed Tomography System
7. DEVICE CLASSIFICATION:
Classification Name: Computed Tomography X-ray system
Regulation Number: 21 CFR §892.1750
Regulatory Class: Class II
8. PRODUCT CODE:
JAK
9. PERFORMANCE STANDARD:
This device conforms to applicable Performance Standards for Ionizing Radiation Emitting
Products [21 CFR, Subchapter J, Part 1020]
2441 Michelle Drive, Tustin, CA 92780 PHONE: 800-421-1968
https://us.medical.canon
Page 1 of 610. PREDICATE DEVICE:
Product Marketed by Regulation Regulation Product 510(k) Clearance
Number Name Code Number Date
Aquilion Serve SP Canon Medical 21 CFR Computed JAK K233334 12/06/2023
V1.3 Systems USA §892.1750 Tomography
System
11. REASON FOR SUBMISSION:
Modification of a cleared device
12. DEVICE DESCRIPTION:
The Aquilion Serve SP (TSX-307B) V2.0 This device is indicated to acquire and display cross
sectional volumes of the whole body, to include the head, with the capability to image whole
organs in a single rotation. Whole organs include but are not limited to brain, heart, pancreas,
etc.
The Aquilion Serve SP has the capability to provide volume sets of the entire organ. These volume
sets can be used to perform specialized studies, using indicated software/hardware, of the whole
organ by a trained and qualified physician.
This system is based upon the technology and materials of previously marketed Canon CT Systems.
13. INDICATIONS FOR USE:
This device is indicated to acquire and display cross sectional volumes of the whole body, to
include the head.
The Aquilion Serve SP has the capability to provide volume sets. These volume sets can be used
to perform specialized studies, using indicated software/hardware, by a trained and qualified
physician.
AiCE (Advanced Intelligent Clear‐IQ Engine) is a noise reduction algorithm that improves image
quality and reduces image noise by employing Deep Convolutional Neural Network methods for
abdomen, pelvis, lung, cardiac, extremities, head and inner ear applications.
PIQE is a Deep Learning Reconstruction method designed to enhance spatial resolution. By
incorporating noise reduction into the Deep Convolutional Neural Network (DCNN), it is possible
to achieve both spatial resolution improvement and noise reduction for cardiac, abdomen,
pelvis, and lung applications, in comparison to FBP and hybrid iterative reconstruction.
CLEAR Motion is a Deep Learning Reconstruction (DLR) method designed to reduce motion
artifacts. A Deep Convolutional Neural Network (DCNN) is used to estimate the patient's motion.
This information is used in the reconstruction process to obtain lung images with less motion
artifacts.
Page 2 of 614. SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE:
The Aquilion ONE (TSX-308A/TSX-306A) V2.0 is substantially equivalent to Aquilion Serve SP (TSX-
307B/1) V1.3, which received premarket clearance under K233334, and is currently marketed by
Canon Medical Systems USA.
The subject and predicate devices are the same with the only differences being: Implementation of
the PIQE Reconstruction System for Cardiac, Body, and Lung anatomical areas and implementation
of the CLEAR Motion reconstruction system for the Body and Lung anatomical areas.
A comparison of the relevant technological characteristics between the subject and the predicate
device is included below.
Subject Device Predicate Device
Device Name, Aquilion ONE (TSX-308A/TSX-306A) Aquilion Serve SP (TSX-307B/1) V1.3
Model Number V2.0
510(k) Number This submission K233334
CLEAR Motion Body and Lung scan reconstruction N/A – feature not available, but previously
Reconstruction capabilities cleared under K242403.
System
PIQE Cardiac, Body, and Lung scan N/A – feature not available, but previously
Reconstruction reconstruction capabilities cleared under K242403.
System
15. SAFETY:
The device is designed and manufactured under the Quality System Regulations as outlined in
21 CFR § 820 and ISO 13485 Standards. This device is in conformance with the applicable parts
of the following standards IEC60601-1, IEC60601-1-2, IEC60601-1-3, IEC60601-1-6, IEC60601-2-
28, IEC60601-2-44, IEC60825-1, IEC62304, IEC81001-5-1, IEC62366-1, NEMA XR-25, NEMA XR-
26, NEMA XR-29 and NEMA NU-2. Additionally, this device complies with all applicable
requirements of the radiation safety performance standards, as outlined in 21 CFR §1010 and
§1020.
16. TESTING
Risk analysis and verification/validation activities conducted through bench testing demonstrate
that the established specifications for the device have been met.
16a. CLEAR Motion for Body and Lung
CLEAR Motion Lung is an AI-based image reconstruction algorithm designed to reduce cardiac-
induced motion artifacts in lung CT imaging. It utilizes a deep convolutional neural network
(DCNN) trained to produce motion-compensated images. The network was trained offline using
3,400 partial image pairs derived from 37 clinical lung CT cases, covering a range of doses, field-
of-view sizes, and helical pitches. The AI model adapts to variations in noise texture and
anatomical motion patterns, with the final output demonstrating improved clarity of lung and
heart structures, with suppression of motion blur and enhanced diagnostic quality. The
algorithm was unchanged by its implementation into the subject device.
Page 3 of 6Performance Testing - CLEAR Motion Lung Dynamic Phantom Evaluation
In this evaluation, the algorithm was applied to a dynamic thoracic phantom simulating
pulmonary vessel motion. This test compared CLEAR Motion reconstructions to standard
reconstructions under controlled scan conditions (helical mode, 120 kV, 0.5 mm × 80
collimation, 0.5 sec/rot, 300 mA), with results confirming that CLEAR Motion significantly
reduced motion artifacts without introducing distortion or loss of anatomical structures.
Performance Testing – CLEAR Motion Lung Non-Dynamic Phantom Evaluation
The CLEAR Motion algorithm was evaluated using a non-dynamic water phantom to assess its
impact on CT number accuracy across a range of dose levels, to confirm that CLEAR Motion
reconstruction does not introduce significant artifacts and maintains CT number consistency
within ±5 HU compared to standard reconstructions. The evaluation included multiple
reconstruction methods —FBP, AIDR3D, AiCE, and PIQE—across lung and soft tissue. CLEAR
Motion consistently met the acceptance criteria, showing minimal CT number variation and no
visual artifacts, demonstrating its enhancement of image quality by compensating for motion
during reconstruction.
Performance Testing – CLEAR Motion IQ Report Phantom Study
This study evaluated the performance of the CLEAR Motion algorithm to correct for motion
during image acquisition, improving spatial fidelity and diagnostic clarity, using a dynamic
thoracic phantom to simulate respiratory motion. The objective was to assess the algorithm’s
ability to reduce motion artifacts in lung CT imaging across various anatomical structures
including pulmonary vessels, airways, and the diaphragm. Scans were performed under multiple
pitch factors and reconstruction methods (AIDR3D and AiCE), both with and without CLEAR
Motion applied. The results demonstrated that CLEAR Motion consistently reduced motion
artifacts across all tested conditions, supporting the safe and effective use of CLEAR Motion for
thoracic imaging.
Performance Testing – CLEAR Motion Clinical Image Quality Evaluation
A clinical evaluation of the CLEAR Motion algorithm was conducted using lung CT datasets
acquired on the TSX-307B system with iSeries V2.0 SP0000 software, in order to assess the
capability of CLEAR Motion to improve image quality by reducing motion artifacts without
introducing distortion or loss of anatomical structures. The evaluation included five
representative cases with varying scan parameters and dose levels (1.1–5.1 mGy), reconstructed
using AIDR3D Lung and AiCE Lung methods, both with and without CLEAR Motion. CLEAR
Motion demonstrated consistent visual improvement in motion artifacts, particularly around the
heart wall and liver dome. Additionally, performance remained stable across different display
field-of-view (dFOV) settings, demonstrating the performance CLEAR Motion for improving
diagnostic image quality in lung CT imaging.
Performance Testing – CLEAR Motion Justification for the Use of DLR Algorithm, CLEAR Motion
Lung
This presentation provides the technical basis for the deployment of the CLEAR Motion
algorithm on the Aquilion Serve SP (TSX-307B) CT system, confirming its compatibility and
performance equivalence with prior implementations on Canon Aquilion ONE / INSIGHT
systems. The evaluation included phantom and clinical image comparisons across multiple
reconstruction methods (FBP, AIDR3D, AiCE) and scan conditions. Quantitative analysis showed
consistent CT value accuracy with and without CLEAR Motion, and visual assessments
Page 4 of 6demonstrated improved image clarity in dynamic and clinical scenarios, confirming that CLEAR
Motion functions as intended when implemented on the Serve SP platform.
16b. PIQE for Cardiac, Body, and Lung
PIQE is an AI-based image reconstruction algorithm which utilizes a DCNN designed to improve
CT image quality by reducing noise and enhancing spatial resolution across cardiac, body, and
lung applications.
The retraining process used high-resolution AiCE images from an ultra-high-resolution CT system
(Aquilion Precision) as targets and simulated normal-resolution AIDR3D images as inputs,
incorporating multiple dose levels and display field-of-view variations to improve robustness.
For cardiac imaging, 18 anonymized clinical cases (13 UHR-CT and 5 NR-CT) were included,
generating over 13,000 training pairs, while body imaging used 28 cases spanning thoracic to
pelvic regions, producing 1,845 large training pairs. Data augmentation techniques were applied
to enhance feature diversity, and 5% of samples were reserved for validation to prevent
overfitting. This approach enabled the algorithm to learn noise reduction and resolution
enhancement.
Performance Testing – PIQE IQ Metrics Evaluation
This study evaluated the image quality performance of PIQE with the subject device. PIQE was
benchmarked against Filtered Backprojection (FBP) and AIDR Enhanced (AIDR3D) across multiple
clinical and phantom-based metrics, including contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR), CT number
accuracy, uniformity, modulation transfer function (MTF), noise power spectra (NPS), and low
contrast detectability (LCD). PIQE demonstrated superior or equivalent performance in all
categories, with notable improvements in noise reduction, spatial resolution, and low contrast
detectability, while avoiding overenhancement artifacts common in traditional methods,
resulting in cleaner images and improved signal-to-noise ratios. These findings support the safe
and effective use of PIQE for clinical CT imaging.
Performance Testing – Justification for the Use of the DLR Algorithm (PIQE)
This presentation provides the technical basis for the use of the PIQE algorithm on the Aquilion
Serve SP (TSX-307B) CT system, based on the similarity of imaging chains between the subject
device and the Aquilion ONE / PRISM systems in which PIQE was previously implemented,
including equivalent noise characteristics and image quality performance. Comparative
evaluations using phantom and clinical data confirmed consistent CT value accuracy and noise
performance across both platforms, demonstrating that PIQE remains safe and effective for its
intended use when implemented on the Serve SP platform.
All prespecified acceptance criteria for performance were passed, demonstrating the substantial
equivalence by the improved features relative to the existing features upon which they were
predicated.
Software Documentation for a Basic Documentation Level, per the FDA guidance document, “Content
of Premarket Submissions for Device Software Functions” issued on June 14, 2023, is included in this
submission. This documentation includes justification for the Basic Documentation Level
determination as well as testing which demonstrates that the verification and validation
requirements have been met.
Page 5 of 6Cybersecurity documentation, per the FDA guidance document “Cybersecurity in Medical Devices:
Quality System Considerations and Content of Premarket Submissions”, issued on June 27, 2025, was
included in this submission.
17. CONCLUSION
The Aquilion Serve SP (TSX-307B) V2.0 performs in a manner similar to and is intended for the
same use as the predicate device, as indicated in product labeling. Based upon this information,
conformance to standards, successful completion of software validation, application of risk
management and design controls and the performance data presented in this submission it is
concluded that the subject device has demonstrated substantial equivalence to the predicate
device and is as safe and effective for its intended use.
Page 6 of 6