May 13, 2026
BeauBrain Healthcare, Inc.
℅ Priscilla Chung
Regulatory Affairs Consultant
LK Consulting Group USA, Inc.
2552 Walnut Ave. Suite 230
Tustin, California 92780
Re: K260032
Trade/Device Name: Morph
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical image management and processing system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH, LLZ
Dated: April 13, 2026
Received: April 13, 2026
Dear Priscilla Chung:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.05
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK260032 - Priscilla Chung Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K260032 - Priscilla Chung Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Daniel M. Krainak, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
DHT8C: Division of Radiological
Imaging and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureI
dsM
[
M
I
a p p lic a b le ).
P le a s e s e le c t th e ty p e s o f u s e s (s e le c t o n e o r b
a ta .
tru c tu re s fro m a s e t o f M R im a g e s . V o lu m e tric m
o rp h is in te n d e d fo r a u to m a tic la b e lin g , v is u a liz
P le a s e p ro v id e y o u r In d ic a tio n s fo r U s e b e lo w .
o rp h
P le a s e p ro v id e th e d e v ic e tra d e n a m e (s ).
te x tb o x w ill b e le ft b la n k fo r o rig in a l a p p lic a tio n s
a p p lic a tio n /s u b m is m a rk e tin g in th e ty p e P le a s e
I n d i c a
o th , a s
e a s u re
a tio n a n
/s u b m is
n u s io n
t i o n s
md
sm
[l] O v e r-T h e -C o
Z P re s c rip tio n
e n ts m a y b e c o
v o lu m e tric q u a
io n s .
b e r, k n o w is it if
f o r U s e
u
U
mn
n
n te r U s e (2 1 C F R 8 0 1
s e (2 1 C F R 8 0 1 S u b p a
p a re d to re fe re n c e
tific a tio n o f s e g m e n
K 2 6 0 0 3 2 T h is .
S u b
D rt
p e
ta b
C ) p a rt
)
rc e n tile
le b ra in510(k) Summary
(K260032)
This summary of 510(k) information is being submitted in accordance with requirements of 21
CFR Part 807.92.
1. Date: 5/12/2026
2. Applicant / Submitter
BeauBrain Healthcare, Inc.
2F, 314, Hakdong-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul
South Korea 06098
Tel: +82-02-6925-0179
3. U.S. Designated Agent
Priscilla Chung
LK Consulting Group USA, Inc.
2552 Walnut Ave Ste 230, Tustin CA 92780
Tel: 714.202.5789 Fax: 714.409.3357
Email: juhee.c@LKconsultingGroup.com
4. Device Information:
• Trade/Device Name: Morph
• Common Name: Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
• Regulation Name: Medical image management and processing system
• Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
• Regulatory Class: II
• Product Code: QIH, LLZ
5. Predicate Device:
NeuroQuant (K170981) by CorTechs Labs, Inc.
6. Device Description:
Morph is an AI-powered brain MRI analysis software that provides brain quantitative
assessments based on segmented quantitative information from brain MRIs. This helps
medical practitioners make clinical decisions. It is an adjunctive tool and should not be
used as the sole basis for final decisions or treatment.
Page 1 of 10The software automatically performs quantitative analysis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
volumes in cerebral areas and the lateral ventricles (LVs) to assess brain
neurodegeneration, such as volumetric changes in specific brain regions. This is often
associated with an increased susceptibility to neurodegenerative diseases like
Alzheimer's disease (AD).
Morph is an AI-powered brain MRI analysis software that provides quantitative
assessments of brain structure volumes based on segmented quantitative information
from brain MRIs. This helps medical practitioners make clinical decisions. It is an
adjunctive tool and should not be used as the sole basis for final decisions or treatment.
The software automatically performs quantitative analysis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
volumes in cerebral areas and the lateral ventricles (LVs) to evaluate structural variations
in specific brain regions. These quantitative measurements are compared to a reference
database to support clinical interpretation.
Morph identifies the 14 specific brain regions, including the left and right CSF areas of
Frontal, Occipital, Parietal, and Temporal lobes, as well as Anterior LVs, Posterior LVs,
and temporal horns of LVs near the hippocampus. It uses volumetric and normative
percentile data to provide standardized scores based on a large database of cognitively
normal individuals.
Images in standardized DICOM format are uploaded through a web-based client
software and processed by the analysis engine, which can be hosted on a cloud-based
server (AWS) or an on-premises server (in-hospital). During preprocessing, the software
converts 2D or 3D T1 MR images in DICOM format to NIfTI format (users can also
directly upload NIfTI format images). Morph receives the MR images from either PC or
PACS (or imaging modalities) through DICOM interface and then process the imaging
analysis of volumetric measurements of brain structures. After the analysis is completed,
the result image in the DICOM secondary capture format is saved in the PACS.
Otherwise, the report can be printed out directly in PDF format.
The device is not intended to diagnose any neurodegenerative disease or brain atrophy. It is
used as a quantitative tool to evaluate the patient against a reference database.
7. Indication for use:
Morph is intended for automatic labeling, visualization and volumetric quantification of
segmentable brain structures from a set of MR images. Volumetric measurements may be
compared to reference percentile data.
Page 2 of 108. Substantial Equivalence:
Comparison Table
Comparison Item Proposed Device, Predicate Device,
Morph NeuroQuant, K170981
510(k) Number K260032 K170981
Trade Name Morph NeuroQuant
Design Software as a Medical Device Software as a Medical Device
(SaMD) (SaMD)
Common Name Medical Image Processing Software Medical Image Processing Software
Regulation 21 CFR 892.2050 21 CFR 892.2050
Number
Regulation Name Automated Radiological Image Picture archiving and
Processing Software communications system
Regulatory Class Class II Class II
Product Code QIH, LLZ LLZ
510(k) Review Radiology Radiology
Panel
Manufacturer BeauBrain Healthcare Inc. CorTechs Labs, Inc.
Target Brain Brain
Anatomical Sites
User Medical professionals
Medical professionals
(radiologists, neurologists and
(radiologists, neurologists and
neuroradiologists and clinical
neuroradiologists)
researcher)
Indications for Morph is intended for automatic NeuroQuant is intended for
Use labeling, visualization and automatic labeling, visualization
volumetric quantification of and volumetric quantification of
segmentable brain structures from a segmentable brain structures and
set of MR images. Volumetric lesions from a set of MR images.
measurements may be compared to Volumetric measurements may be
reference percentile data. compared to reference percentile
data.
Design and ● Automated measurement of ● Automated measurement of
Incorporated brain volumes and structures. brain tissue volumes and
Technology ● Automated segmentation and structures and lesions.
quantification of brain ● Automatic segmentation and
structures using deep learning- quantification of brain
based algorithm, with MR structures using a dynamic
Page 3 of 10Comparison Item Proposed Device, Predicate Device,
Morph NeuroQuant, K170981
image intensity. probabilistic neuroanatomical
atlas, with age and gender
specificity, based on the MR
image intensity.
Physical ● Operates in either on-premise ● Software package installed on
Characteristics or a cloud service environment User hardware
● Operates on off-the-shelf
hardware (multiple vendors)
Device Description Morph is a fully automated MR NeuroQuant is a fully automated
imaging post-processing medical MR imaging post-processing
device software that provides medical device software that
automatic labeling, visualization provides automatic labeling,
and volumetric quantification of visualization and volumetric
brain structures from a set of MR quantification of brain structures
images. The resulting output is and lesions from a set of MR
provided in a standard DICOM images. The resulting output is
format as additional MR series with provided in a standard DICOM
segmented color overlays and format as additional MR series with
morphometric reports that can be segmented color overlays and
displayed on third-party DICOM morphometric reports that can be
workstations and Picture Archive displayed on third-party DICOM
and Communications Systems workstations and Picture Archive
(PACS). The high throughput and Communications Systems
capability makes the software (PACS). The high throughput
suitable for use in routine patient capability makes the software
care as a support tool for clinicians suitable for use in both clinical trial
in assessment of structural MRIs. research and routine patient care as
a support tool for clinicians in
assessment of structural MRIs.
Processing Automated internal pipeline that Automated internal pipeline that
Architecture performs: performs:
● Segmentation ● Artifact correction
● Volume calculation ● Segmentation
● Report generation ● Lesion quantification
● Volume calculation
● Report generation
Data Source ● MRI scanner: 2D or 3D T1 MRI ● MRI scanner: 3D T1 MRI scans
scans acquired with specified acquired with specified
Page 4 of 10Comparison Item Proposed Device, Predicate Device,
Morph NeuroQuant, K170981
protocols protocols
● Supports DICOM format as ● Supports DICOM format as
input input
Output ● Provides volumetric ● Provides volumetric
measurements of brain measurements of brain
structures structures and lesions
● Includes segmented color ● Includes segmented color
overlays and morphometric overlays and morphometric
reports reports
● Automatically compares results ● Automatically compares results
to reference percentile data and to reference percentile data and
to prior scans when available to prior scans when available
● Supports DICOM format as ● Supports DICOM format as
output of results that can be output of results that can be
displayed on DICOM displayed on DICOM
workstations and Picture workstations and Picture
Archive and Communications Archive and Communications
Systems Systems
Safety ● Automated quality control ● Automated quality control
functions functions
- Scan protocol verification - Tissue contrast check
● Results must be reviewed by a - Scan protocol verification
trained doctor (physician, - Atlas alignment check
neurologist, radiologist, ● Results must be reviewed by a
clinician) trained physician
Substantial Equivalence Discussion
The proposed device, Morph is substantially equivalent to the predicate device, NeuroQuant
(K170981).
Morph and the predicate device are software for automatically identifying and quantifying the
volumes of brain structures, automatic labeling and visualization. The devices have the same
intended use and operating principle. They take MR brain images as input and generate an
electronic report with similar quantitative information. For both devices, output volumes are
compared to a normative dataset of control subjects computed based on MRI data from normal
control subjects.
The predicate device is classified under 21 CFR 892.2050 (Class II, Product code LLZ), while
the proposed device is classified as Automated Radiological Image Processing Software (21 CFR
892.2050, Class II, Product code QIH, Radiology). The only distinction is that the QIH product
Page 5 of 10code indicates inclusion of an AI model, whereas the LLZ product code does not; however, the
devices are otherwise identical.
Indications for Use
The primary intended use of providing automatic segmentation and quantification of brain
structures is equivalent. The predicate device performs volumetric quantification of brain
structures including brain lesion quantification (requiring T2-FLAIR). The proposed device does
not quantify brain lesions but provides volumetric analysis of anatomical brain structures from
T1-weighted MR images. This difference represents a reduced functionality rather than a change
in intended use. The absence of lesion quantification does not raise new questions of safety or
effectiveness.
Design and Incorporated Technology
Both devices are software applications that receive T1-weighted MR images as input and provide
automated brain segmentation and volumetric quantification as output. The predicate uses an
atlas-based segmentation method, whereas the proposed device applies a deep learning–based
segmentation model. Although the algorithmic approach differs, both rely on established image
analysis technologies. AI-based algorithm(Segmentation model) Performance testing of the
proposed device (DSC and ICC) demonstrates accuracy and reproducibility equivalent to the
predicate, ensuring that the technological differences do not introduce new risks.
Segmentation Accuracy and Targeted Regions
Both devices produce segmentation maps with color overlays and volumetric reports.
However, the predicate segments whole brain regions, including gray matter, white matter, CSF,
and lesions. The proposed device segments cortical CSF regions, lateral ventricles, and
hippocampal areas to quantify brain regional volume. This narrower scope is a reduced
functionality but uses the same mechanism of volumetric quantification with reference percentile
comparison. The omission of lesion quantification does not alter the interpretation of volumetric
results and does not raise questions of safety or effectiveness.
Physical / Operational Characteristics
The predicate operates on off-the-shelf hardware, while the proposed device supports both on-
premise and cloud-based environments, accessible through a web browser. This deployment
difference does not affect analysis performance. Verification and validation testing confirm that
the proposed device performs reliably across environments, and therefore the difference does not
impact safety or effectiveness.
Quality Control Functions
The predicate device includes tissue contrast and atlas alignment checks as part of automated
quality control. The proposed device, based on deep learning, does not require these checks.
Instead, performance has been validated through algorithm testing, ensuring equivalent accuracy
and safety. The absence of these checks does not affect the reliability of segmentation or
volumetric outputs.
Page 6 of 10Output and Safety Perspective
Both devices generate segmentation maps with color overlays and quantitative volumetric
reports, including percentile comparisons. The only difference is that the predicate includes
lesion quantification, while the proposed device does not. For its intended function—volumetric
quantification of segmentable brain structures—the proposed device provides equivalent outputs.
Software validation and performance testing confirms that the device meets acceptance criteria
for accuracy and reproducibility. Therefore, these differences do not raise new questions of
safety or effectiveness.
Summary
The proposed device, Morph (BeauBrain Healthcare Inc.), has the same intended use and
fundamental technological characteristics as the predicate device, NeuroQuant (K170981,
CorTechs Labs, Inc.). Both are Software as a Medical Device (SaMD) that automatically label,
visualize, and quantify brain structures from MR images, providing volumetric reports with
percentile-based comparisons. Differences between the devices include the absence of lesion
quantification in Morph, use of a deep learning algorithm instead of an atlas-based method, a
narrower segmentation scope (CSF, ventricles, hippocampus), and the option to operate in cloud-
based environments. These differences represent reduced functionality or alternative
implementations rather than new intended uses. Performance testing (DSC, ICC) confirm that
Morph achieves accuracy, reproducibility, and safety equivalent to the predicate. Accordingly,
these differences do not raise new questions of safety or effectiveness, and Morph is therefore
substantially equivalent to NeuroQuant (K170981).Accordingly, Morph is substantially
equivalent to the predicate device NeuroQuant (K170981).
9. Performance Data:
The device employs an AI–based segmentation algorithm to automatically identify and quantify
selected brain structures from structural MRI images, including cortical CSF spaces, lateral
ventricles, and CSF spaces surrounding the hippocampal region. Performance characteristics
were established through independent validation using datasets that were fully separated from the
training data. These datasets were designed to reflect variability in scanner manufacturers,
acquisition protocols, demographics, and clinical diagnoses.
a) Training Data
The AI-based segmentation algorithm was trained using a total of 1,947 3D T1-weighted MRI
scans obtained from Samsung Medical Center (SMC) and several publicly available datasets
including the IXI, ICBM, and OASIS-3.
The training dataset included adult subjects across a wide age range (50-99 years) and included
both male and female subjects. The cohort also represented diverse racial groups, including
White, Black, and Asian subjects. The clinically relevant groups were included, such as
cognitively normal individuals, subjects with mild cognitive impairment, and patients diagnosed
with Alzheimer’s disease.
Page 7 of 10MRI scans were acquired using scanners from multiple major vendors including Siemens,
Philips, and GE Healthcare, with magnetic field strengths of 1.5 T and 3 T and slice thicknesses
of 1.0 mm and 1.2 mm. All scans consisted of 3D T1-weighted structural MRI images acquired
using protocols compatible with volumetric brain analysis.
Training and validation datasets were strictly separated at the subject level. No MRI scans from
the training datasets were reused in the validation datasets, ensuring independence of
performance estimation.
b) Performance Testing
To support transparency of the AI-based segmentation model, the validation dataset was
characterized with respect to demographics, clinical subgroups, imaging equipment, and the
reference standard generation. The validation dataset consisted of 64 MRI scans from unique
subjects obtained from the ADNI, a U.S.-based dataset.
The validation cohort included adult subjects aged 50–99 years, with representation across
multiple age groups, including 50–59 years (6.3%), 60–69 years (31.3%), 70–79 years (32.8%),
80–89 years (28.1%), and 90–99 years (1.5%).
The dataset included female (40.6%) and male (59.4%) subjects, and the racial distribution
consisted of White (89.0%), Black (6.3%), and Asian (4.7%).
In terms of clinical subgroup distribution, the cohort included cognitively normal subjects (CN)
(29.7%), subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) (37.5%), and patients diagnosed with
Alzheimer’s disease (AD) (32.8%).MRI data were collected from multiple clinical sites across
the United States, including Eastern, Western, and Midwestern regions. Images were acquired on
scanners from major manufacturers, including Siemens (48.4%), GE Healthcare (31.3%), and
Philips (20.3%), using 3D T1-weighted structural MRI protocols.
Imaging parameters reflected typical variability encountered in clinical practice. The dataset
included images acquired with slice thicknesses of 1.0 mm (51.6%) and 1.2 mm (48.4%), and
magnetic field strengths of 1.5 T (51.6%) and 3 T (48.4%).
The reference standard for segmentation accuracy evaluation was established through manual
segmentation of 64 MRI scans by two U.S. board-certified neuroradiologists using predefined
anatomical criteria and the ITK-SNAP software. Inter-rater agreement was assessed using the
Dice Similarity Coefficient, and cases with lower agreement were reviewed by a senior
neuroradiologist to establish the final consensus reference segmentation standard used for
performance evaluation.
Standalone performance testing was conducted using a validation dataset consisting of 64
independent 3D T1-weighted MRI scans.
Segmentation performance was evaluated by comparing automated segmentation results with
expert manual segmentations using the DSC. The predefined acceptance criterion for
segmentation performance was a mean DSC greater than or equal to 0.70 across evaluated brain
regions.
Page 8 of 10Dice coefficients were highest in the lateral ventricles (>0.97) and in the temporal horn adjacent
to the hippocampus(>0.89). Other CSF regions demonstrated Dice coefficient ranging from
approximately 0.79 to 0.82, while occipital CSF regions achieved Dice coefficients of
approximately 0.71. Across the full cohort, the overall mean DSC exceeded 0.85, satisfying the
predefined acceptance criteria.
To further assess the robustness and generalizability of the algorithm, additional subgroup
analyses were conducted across demographic characteristics, clinical diagnosis, and imaging
acquisition parameters. Mean DSC values were consistent across demographic subgroups
including age and sex (0.85 to 0.88), clinical diagnostic categories including AD, MCI, and
cognitively normal subjects (0.86 to 0.87), and imaging acquisition parameters including scanner
manufacturer, magnetic field strength, and slice thickness (0.86 to 0.87), with no subgroup
falling below the predefined acceptance criterion.
Agreement between automated and expert reference volumetric measurements was evaluated
using Bland–Altman analysis. Mean bias, standard deviation of volume differences, and 95%
limits of agreement (LoA) were assessed for all evaluated brain regions. In ventricular regions,
mean bias ranged from -30.8 mm³ to 138.4 mm³, with standard deviations ranging from 62.6
mm³ to 478.5 mm³ and 95% LoA ranging from -799.6 mm³ to 1076.3 mm³. In lobar regions,
mean bias ranged from approximately -2,071 mm³ to 223 mm³, with standard deviations ranging
from 318.1 mm³ to 5105.5 mm³ and 95% LoA ranging from -12078.2 mm³ to 7935.3 mm³.
These results demonstrated low volumetric bias and agreement within predefined clinically
acceptable 95% LoA ranges between automated and expert reference measurements, with no
evidence of clinically significant systematic bias.
Summary
The proposed device, Morph (BeauBrain Healthcare Inc.), has the same intended use and similar
fundamental technological characteristics as the predicate device, NeuroQuant (CorTechs Labs,
Inc.). Both devices are Software as a Medical Device (SaMD) that automatically segment,
visualize, and quantify brain structures from MR images and generate volumetric reports with
percentile-based comparisons.
Differences include the use of a deep learning–based segmentation algorithm in Morph, a
narrower segmentation scope, the absence of lesion quantification, and the option for cloud-
based deployment. These differences do not introduce new intended uses or raise new questions
of safety or effectiveness.
Performance testing demonstrated that Morph provides accurate and reproducible volumetric
measurements comparable to those of the predicate device. Therefore, Morph is substantially
equivalent to the predicate device.
10. Conclusion:
The subject device is substantially equivalent in the areas of technical characteristics, general
Page 9 of 10function, application, and indications for use. The test results also support the substantial
equivalence to the predicate devices. Therefore, we conclude that the subject device
described in this submission is substantially equivalent to the predicate device.
Page 10 of 10