February 12, 2026
Orthosoft Inc. (d/b/a) Zimmer CAS
Nilam Dave
Regulatory Affairs Specialist
75 Queen St. Suite 3300
Montreal, QC H3C 2N6
Canada
Re: K260104
Trade/Device Name: Signature™ ONE System
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 888.3660
Regulation Name: Shoulder joint metal/polymer semi-constrained cemented prosthesis
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QHE, KWT, KWS, PHX, MBF, HSD
Dear Nilam Dave:
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is sending this letter to notify you of an administrative change for
your device cleared on February 4, 2026. Specifically, FDA is updating this substantial equivalence (SE)
letter as an administrative correction to the typo in 510(k) number on the IFU.
Please note that the 510(k) submission was not re-reviewed. For questions regarding this letter please contact
Farzana Sharmin, OHT6: Office of Orthopedic Devices, 301-796-4067, Farzana.Sharmin@fda.hhs.gov.
Sincerely,
FARZANA SHARMIN -S
Farzana Sharmin, PhD
Assistant Director
DHT6A: Division of Joint Arthroplasty Devices
OHT6: Office of Orthopedic Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govFebruary 4, 2026
Orthosoft Inc. (d/b/a) Zimmer CAS
Nilam Dave
Regulatory Affairs Specialist
75 Queen St. Suite 3300
Montreal, QC H3C 2N6
Canada
Re: K260104
Trade/Device Name: Signature™ ONE System
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 888.3660
Regulation Name: Shoulder joint metal/polymer semi-constrained cemented prosthesis
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QHE, KWT, KWS, PHX, MBF, HSD
Dated: January 6, 2026
Received: January 13, 2026
Dear Nilam Dave:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.K260104 - Nilam Dave Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13484 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), and ISO 13485 clause 8.5 (Corrective and preventative
action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QMSR requires
device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (ISO 13485 clause 7.3
and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K260104 - Nilam Dave Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Farzana Sharmin -S
Farzana Sharmin, PhD
Assistant Director
DHT6A: Division of Joint Arthroplasty Devices
OHT6: Office of Orthopedic Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureIndications for Use
Please type in the marketing application/submission number, if it is known. This
K260104 ?
textbox will be left blank for original applications/submissions.
Please provide the device trade name(s). ?
Signature TM ONE System
Please provide your Indications for Use below. ?
The Signature TM ONE System is indicated, based on patient-specific radiological images with identifiable
placement anatomical landmarks, to assist in pre-operative planning and/or intra-operative guiding of
surgical instruments for shoulder replacement surgical procedures on patients not precluded from being
radiologically scanned.
The Signature TM ONE System is designed for use on a skeletally mature patient population. The targeted
population has the same characteristics as the population that is suitable for the implants compatible with
the Signature™ ONE System.
The Signature™ ONE System is to be used with the glenoid components of the following shoulder implant
systems in accordance with their indications and contraindications: Zimmer® Trabecular Metal Reverse
Plus® Shoulder, Comprehensive® Total Shoulder System, Comprehensive® Reverse Shoulder System,
Comprehensive® Reverse Augmented Baseplates and Alliance® Glenoid System.
The Signature TM ONE System pre-operative planning is also compatible with the humeral components of
the following shoulder implant systems in accordance with their indications and contraindications:
Comprehensive® Total Shoulder System, Comprehensive® Reverse Shoulder System, and Identity™
Shoulder System.
The Signature TM ONE System Guides and bone models are intended for single use only.
Please select the types of uses (select one or both, as [gJ Prescription Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart D)
D ?
applicable). Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)K260104 - Page 1 of 5
510(k) Summary
In accordance with 21 CFR §807.92 and the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990, the following
information is provided for the Signature™ ONE System 510(k) premarket notification. The
submission was prepared in accordance with the FDA guidance documents, ‘The Special 510k
Program Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff’, issued on September
13, 2019, ‘Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device Guidance for
Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff’, issued on October 25, 2017, and ‘Deciding
When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software Change to an Existing Device Guidance for Industry
and Food and Drug Administration Staff’, issued on October 25, 2017.
Sponsor: Orthosoft Inc (d/b/a. Zimmer CAS)
75 Queen St., Suite 3300
Montreal, QC, CANADA H3C 2N6
Establishment Registration Number: 9617840
Contact Person: Nilam Dave
Regulatory Affairs Specialist
Telephone: +1 (206) 638-8947
Date: 06 Jan 2026
Subject Device: Trade Name: Signature™ ONE System
Common Name: Signature™ ONE System, ONE Planner
Shoulder
Classification Name:
 QHE– Shoulder joint metal/polymer semi-constrained
cemented prosthesis (21 CFR 888.3660)
Additional Product Codes:
 KWT- Shoulder joint metal/polymer non-constrained
cemented prosthesis (21 CFR 888.3650)
 KWS- Shoulder joint metal/polymer semi-constrained
cemented prosthesis (21 CFR 888.3660)
 PHX- Shoulder joint metal/polymer semi-constrained
cemented prosthesis (21 CFR 888.3660)
 MBF- Shoulder joint metal/polymer/metal
nonconstrained or semi-constrained porous-coated
uncemented prosthesis (21 CFR 888.3670)
 HSD- Shoulder joint humeral (hemi-shoulder) metallic
uncemented prosthesis (21 CFR 888.3690)K260104 - Page 2 of 5
Predicate Device:
510(k) Number Device Name Manufacturer
K232425 Signature™ Zimmer CAS
ONE System
Purpose and Device
Description: The Signature™ ONE System is developed to assist in pre-
operative planning (using the Signature™ ONE Planner)
and to accurately transfer a pre-operative plan to orthopedic
surgical procedures (using the Signature™ ONE Guides
and bone model) if desired in skeletally mature individuals
for Total Shoulder Arthroplasty. Both anatomic and reverse
(TSA and RSA respectively) approaches are supported.
The Signature ONE Guides and Bone Models are designed
and manufactured of polyamide (nylon) using additive
manufacturing selective laser sintering (SLS), based on the
approved/finalized pre-surgical plan and shipped prior to
surgery. The guides and bone models are provided non-
sterile and sterilized at the hospital. They are used intra-
operatively to assist the surgeon in reproducing the plan on
the scapula. The Signature ONE System surgical technique
remains close to the conventional shoulder arthroplasty
workflow.
The Signature™ ONE System uses a Non-Device Medical
Device Data System (MDDS) called the Zimmer Biomet
Portal for the interaction with external users (i.e. imaging
technician and the surgeon). The internal users (i.e. the
Zimmer Biomet operators) use manufacturing software
applications to prepare the patient cases for the surgeon.
The purpose of the submission is that the CT
Reconstruction internal software application was updated
with an improved AI/ML locked model for automatic
segmentation and also retraining the model with new
production grade scapula and humerus CT segmentations.
The AI/ML model is used in the Segmentation step only
within the CT Reconstruction internal software application
prior to manual segmentation performed by the Zimmer
Biomet operator. The use of AI has not changed since
predicate K232425. In addition, the Landmarking step
within the internal software application was updated with
option to select additional configurable landmarks in the
Planning application (used to determine the reference
coordinate systems to provide native bone information).K260104 - Page 3 of 5
The overall Intended Use, Indications for Use,
manufacturing process, materials, sterilization methods,
principle of operation, and software workflow have not
changed from the predicate K232425.
Indications for Use: The Signature™ ONE System is indicated, based on
patient-specific radiological images with identifiable
placement anatomical landmarks, to assist in pre-operative
planning and/or intra-operative guiding of surgical
instruments for shoulder replacement surgical procedures
on patients not precluded from being radiologically
scanned.
The Signature™ ONE System is designed for use on a
skeletally mature patient population. The targeted
population has the same characteristics as the population
that is suitable for the implants compatible with the
Signature™ ONE System.
The Signature™ ONE System is to be used with the glenoid
components of the following shoulder implant systems in
accordance with their indications and contraindications:
Zimmer® Trabecular Metal Reverse Plus® Shoulder,
Comprehensive® Total Shoulder System,
Comprehensive® Reverse Shoulder System,
Comprehensive® Reverse Augmented Baseplates and
Alliance® Glenoid System.
The Signature™ ONE System pre-operative planning is
also compatible with the humeral components of the
following shoulder implant systems in accordance with
their indications and contraindications: Comprehensive®
Total Shoulder System, Comprehensive® Reverse
Shoulder System, and Identity™ Shoulder System.
The Signature™ ONE System Guides and bone models are
intended for single use only.
Summary of Technological
Characteristics: The rationale for substantial equivalence is based on
consideration of the following characteristics:
 Intended Use/ Indications for Use: Same as predicate
device
 Principle of Operation: The subject and predicate
devices both utilize pre-operative images, andK260104 - Page 4 of 5
intraoperative guidance of instruments. The Principle of
Operation remains unchanged since device clearance in
K232425.
 Guides/Bone Models: The subject and predicate device
utilize 3D printing (SLS) to manufacture the guides.
The guides are non-sterile single use and have a shelf
life of 6 months. The existing guides and bone models
remain unchanged since predicate clearance K232425.
 Technological Characteristics: The subject and
predicate device have similar technological
characteristics (e.g. image modality, anatomical site,
hardware components, and input file type) from the
predicate device cleared in K232425.
 Software Workflow: The subject and predicate device
utilize internal manufacturing software applications and
an external software planning application that the
surgeon interacts with to review, modify and approve
the plan. The overall fundamental software workflow is
identical between the subject and predicate device in
that CT DICOM images are triaged, segmentation of
the image occurs, landmarks are placed on the 3D
reconstructed bone model, planning/approval by the
surgeon and creation of the guide and bone model. The
workflow remains unchanged from the predicate device
K232425.
 Software Output: The AI/ML model used in the
Segmentation step within the CT Reconstruction
internal software application was updated by retraining
the model with production grade scapula and humerus
CT segmentations where as in the predicate the AI/ML
model was trained with production grade scapula scans
and the humerus scans were exploratory quality used to
develop the model. The Landmarking step within the
internal software application was updated with option
to select additional configurable landmarks, and like the
predicate uses existing landmarks to determine the
reference coordinate systems to provide native bone
information.
Summary of Performance Data
(Nonclinical and/or Clinical):
The following performance data was provided in support of
the substantial equivalence determination:
Device Performance Testing:K260104 - Page 5 of 5
Verification and Validation Testing for Signature™ ONE System
was conducted with the following aspects:
o Performance Tests: Performance tests documented to ensure
the performance of the implemented features and verify
related design inputs.
o Engineering Analysis: Analysis documented to ensure the
performance of the implemented features and verify related
design inputs.
o Usability Engineering: Performance of the system in regards
to human factors engineering. This remains unchanged and
applicable from the predicate K232425.
o Validation: Validation performed to validate related user
needs, intended use and safety and effectiveness. This
remains unchanged and applicable from the predicate
K232425.
Software Verification and Validation Testing
Software tests were conducted to satisfy the Enhanced Level of
Documentation per requirements of Content of Premarket
Submissions for Device Software Functions Guidance for Industry
and Food and Drug Administration Staff issued on June 14, 2023
and IEC 62304 (Medical Device Software- Software Life Cycle
Processes). The testing demonstrates that the Signature™ ONE
System does not raise any different questions of safety and
effectiveness as compared to the predicate devices.
Substantial Equivalence
Conclusion The proposed and predicate device have the same Intended Use and
Indications for Use, principle of operation, Guides/Bone Models,
similar technological characteristics and same software workflow.
The new AI/ML model for automatic segmentation is used in the
same way as the predicate device. The additional configurable
landmarks in the Landmarking step does not change the existing
landmarking application and the overall software workflow remains
the same as the predicate device. In summary, any differences
between the devices does not raise different questions of safety and
effectiveness and the proposed device is at least as safe and effective
as the legally marketed predicate device.