June 12, 2026
Brainomix Limited
Zsolt Szrnka
Senior Regulatory Affairs Manager
First Floor, Seacourt Tower, West Way
OXFORD, OX2 0JJ
UNITED KINGDOM
Re: K260406
Trade/Device Name: Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: May 15, 2026
Received: May 15, 2026
Dear Zsolt Szrnka:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.K260406 - Zsolt Szrnka Page 2
FDA's substantial equivalence determination also included the review and clearance of your Predetermined
Change Control Plan (PCCP). Under section 515C(b)(1) of the Act, a new premarket notification is not
required for a change to a device cleared under section 510(k) of the Act, if such change is consistent with an
established PCCP granted pursuant to section 515C(b)(2) of the Act. Under 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3), a new
premarket notification is required if there is a major change or modification in the intended use of a device,
or if there is a change or modification in a device that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of
the device, e.g., a significant change or modification in design, material, chemical composition, energy
source, or manufacturing process. Accordingly, if deviations from the established PCCP result in a major
change or modification in the intended use of the device, or result in a change or modification in the device
that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, then a new premarket notification
would be required consistent with section 515C(b)(1) of the Act and 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3). Failure to submit
such a premarket submission would constitute adulteration and misbranding under sections 501(f)(1)(B) and
502(o) of the Act, respectively.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on theseK260406 - Zsolt Szrnka Page 3
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb
Assistant Director
DHT8B: Division of Radiologic Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 06/30/2023
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K260406
Device Name
Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity
Indications for Use (Describe)
Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity is intended for automatic labeling, visualization, and volumetric quantification of
intracranial hyperdensities from a set of Non-Contrast CT (NCCT) head scans acquired at a single time point.
The device output should be reviewed along with patient’s original images by a physician.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (6/20) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EFK260406
510(K) Summary
Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity
Date Prepared: 11th June 2026
Applicant’s name: Brainomix Limited
Applicant’s address: First Floor, Seacourt Tower, West Way
Oxford, OX2 0JJ
United Kingdom
Official contact: Zsolt Szrnka
+44 (0) 7949 013914
regulatory@brainomix.com
Device Trade Name: Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity
Device Common Name: Automated radiological image processing software
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Regulation No: 21 C.F.R. §892.2050
Classification Panel: Radiology Devices
1 Predicate Device
The Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity device is claimed to be substantially equivalent to the following legally marketed
device:
Trade Name: Viz HDS, Viz Volume Plus, Viz ICH+ (subsequently referred to as Viz HDS only)
Manufacturer: Viz.ai, Inc.
Regulation Number: 21 C.F.R. §892.2050
Regulatory Class: Class II
Regulation Name: Medical image management and processing system
Product Code: QIH
Submission Number: K232363
2 Device Description
Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity is a software-only device that uses a locked artificial intelligence machine learning
(AI/ML) algorithm to process non-contrast head CT (NCCT) scans to outline intracranial hyperdense areas and then
quantify the volume of intracranial hyperdensities. Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity analyzes the head NCCT series in
DICOM format and produces a summary series and a segmentation series in DICOM format. The segmentation
series shows an RGB overlay, on each slice of the input series and hyperdensities segmentation masks.
For slices including hyperdensities, their volume would be mentioned in a color legend that is also overlaid on the
slice. The colors are only for visual differentiation between the segmented regions; the colors don’t have a meaning
on their own.The following image is an example of the Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity desktop user interface displaying output
series generated by the device.
Figure 1: Example NCCT results screen of the Brainomix 360 user interface in case of a scan processed with intracranial hyperdensity
detected, segmented and quantified by Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity
The device output is exported in DICOM format, which is sent to a pre-configured PACS destination together with
the original NCCT series for review by a physician to aid in the assessment of measuring intracranial hyperdensities.
Users can access the system through a web browser on any machine with a connection to the Brainomix 360
platform, including mobile devices. A user may filter the view in the Brainomix 360 Viewer, to add or remove
segmented volumes from the total hyperdense volume; however, the edited results are not sent back to PACS i.e.,
only viewed at a local level.
The Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity device is made available to the user through the Brainomix 360 platform, which is
a central control unit which coordinates the execution image processing modules which support various analysis
methods used in clinical practice today.
3 Clinical Characteristics
The primary users of the Brainomix 360 platform are medical imaging professionals. Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity is
a parallel workflow tool installed across the neurology network in healthcare facilities to identify and communicate
images and provide information of scans from adult populations who have undergone a non-contrast CT head scan
in the context of suspected acute intracranial hemorrhage as part of primary diagnostic workup. After a NCCT scan
has been performed, a copy of the study is automatically sent and processed by Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity which
provides the user with labeling, visualization, and volumetric quantification of intracranial hyperdensities.
4 Indications for UseBrainomix 360 Hyperdensity is intended for automatic labeling, visualization, and volumetric quantification of
intracranial hyperdensities from a set of Non-Contrast CT (NCCT) head scans acquired at a single time point.
The device output should be reviewed along with patient’s original images by a physician.
5 Technological Characteristics
Networking and Image Transfer
Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity may be used as a stand-alone tool. However, for streamlined integration in clinical use,
the software may communicate with other DICOM-compliant medical devices through the DICOM Network
Integration Module. The DICOM network integration module (DNIM) utilizes the Brainomix 360 Platform API to
perform transfers of DICOM series using the DICOM network communications protocol. Practical uses of this
module include connection to a CT scanner workstation, so long as the connected DICOM device supports the
necessary DICOM network protocol features.
Figure 2: Networking and image transfer workflow
Principal Workflow
Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity principal workflow includes the following key steps:
1. NCCT head image input: Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity provides an automated workflow which will
automatically process image data received by the system in accordance with pre-configured user DICOM
routing preferences.
2. Image processing function: The algorithm processes NCCT scans searching for segmentable intracranial
hyperdensities.
3. Image processing output: Segmentable hyperdense volume displayed on the NCCT results screen of the
user interface is considered as the output of the processing function, which prompts user interaction.
6 Performance Data
Clinical testing was performed as a study comparing output of Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity to the ground truth as
established by trained radiologists. The study demonstrated that the MAE (Mean absolute error) for hyperdensities
total volume, upper 95% CI bounds was less than 7.5 mL between the algorithm and the established ground truth,which was aligned with the performance goal. Additionally, DICE score was calculated to describe the degree of
agreement between the measurements by the Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity algorithm in comparison to the
measurements that were obtained manually. The study demonstrated that the DICE score for hyperdenity(ies)
lower CI bound was greater than 70%, which was aligned with the performance goal. Stratification of device
performance was divided by clinical site, sex, age, race/ethnicity, slice thickness, scanner manufacturer and size of
estimated quantity.
7 Prescriptive Statement
Caution: Federal law restricts this device to sale by or on the order of a physician.
8 Verification and Validation
Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity has been designed, verified and validated in compliance with 21 CFR, Part 820.30
requirements. The device has been designed to meet the requirements associated with ISO 14971:2019 for risk
management and the software development process conforms to IEC 62304:2015 and IEC 82304-1. The
performance of Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity has been validated through clinical test data.
9 Cybersecurity
Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity has been designed to follow the FDA Cybersecurity Guidance and IEC 81001-5-1.
10 Substantial Equivalence
Intended Use/Indications for Use
Both the subject and predicate device are software packages that assist the user in the labeling, visualization, and
quantification of segmentable brain structures from a set of Non-Contrast CT (NCCT) head scans. They are both
intended to automate the current manual process of identifying, labeling, and quantifying the volume of
segmentable intracranial hyperdensities identified on NCCT images. Both devices are Software as a Medical Device
(SaMD) which are designed to streamline medical image processing tasks that are time consuming and fatiguing in
routine patient workup. The device output of both devices should be reviewed along with patient’s original images
by a physician. Therefore, the subject and the predicate device have the same intended use.
Where the subject device and predicate device differ is that the indications for use of the subject device does not
provide two of the outputs that the predicate does, namely lateral ventricles volume and midline shift. This
difference does not raise any safety or efficacy question as the clinical value of the software in identifying, labeling,
and quantifying the volume of segmentable intracranial hyperdensities is not negatively impacted by the non-
display of lateral ventricle volume and midline shift and therefore the risks associated with these types of outputs
are not applicable to the subject device. These radiological findings are distinct from the segmentation and
volumetry of hyperdensity. Therefore the absence of automated assessment of lateral ventricle volume and midline
shift in this device does not pose any additional risk in its clinical use as compared to the predicate device.
Environments and Users
Both the subject and predicate device are designed to be used by trained clinicians in a hospital/clinical
environment.
User Interface
Both the subject and predicate device provide the results and images via a web user interface (desktop and mobile)
or PACS viewer that allow the user to preview images and patients identified, labelled and quantified with
segmentable intracranial hyperdensities to automate the manual process of measurement.Technological Characteristics
Both the subject and predicate device use a deep-learning algorithm that analyzes NCCT images for identifying,
labeling and quantifying the volume of segmentable intracranial hyperdensities. Both the devices have DICOM
annotated series image and summary report as an output which is sent to pre-configured PACS destinations
together with the original NCCT series for review by a physician. They both provide RGB overlay as the output for
intracranial hyperdensities where the colors are only for visual differentiation between the segmented regions and
the colors don’t have a meaning on their own.
Where the subject and predicate device differ in technological characteristics is in relation to the functions which
are present in the predicate but not in the subject device (display of lateral ventricle volume and midline shift). The
differences in technological characteristics of the devices do not raise different questions of safety and
effectiveness as the risks associated with these outputs (display of lateral ventricle volume and midline shift) do
not apply to the subject device.
Performance data has been collected through clinical study to support that the technical characteristics of the
algorithm meet the clinical performance criteria of the predicate device. In order to sufficiently characterize the
clinical performance of the subject device, Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity used the same approach to characterize
clinical performance as the predicate device. The two primary outcome measures used in the validation were mean
absolute error and Dice similarity coefficients – the same outcome measures reported by the predicate. As the
performance of the subject device met the performance reported by the predicate device and, therefore, the data
demonstrates equivalence.
11 Substantial Equivalence Comparison
A table comparing the key features of the subject and predicate devices is provided below.
Characteristics/ Subject Device Predicate Device
Parameter Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity Viz HDS
Application No. K260406 K232363
Product Code QIH QIH
Regulation No. 21 C.F.R. §892.2050 21 C.F.R. §892.2050
Intended Use / Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity is intended for The Viz HDS device is intended for automatic
Indications for Use automatic labeling, visualization, and volumetric labeling, visualization, and quantification of
quantification of intracranial hyperdensities from a segmentable brain structures from a set of Non-
set of Non-Contrast CT (NCCT) head scans acquired Contrast CT (NCCT) head scans. The software is
at a single time point. intended to automate the current manual process
of identifying, labeling, and quantifying the volume
The device output should be reviewed along with
of segmentable brain structures identified on NCCT
patient’s original images by a physician.
images. Viz HDS provides volumes from NCCT scans
acquired at a single time point. The Viz HDS
software is indicated for use in the analysis of the
following structures: Intracranial Hyperdensities,
Lateral Ventricles and Midline Shift. The device
output should be reviewed along with patient’s
original images by a physician.
Anatomical Region Head Head
Independent Yes Yes
Standard of Care
WorkflowCharacteristics/ Subject Device Predicate Device
Parameter Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity Viz HDS
Input Images Non-contrast CT from a single time point Non-contrast CT from a single time point
Clinical Condition Intracranial hyperdensities Intracranial hyperdensities, lateral ventricles and
midline shift
Data Acquisition Acquires medical image data from DICOM Acquires medical image data from DICOM
compliant imaging devices and modalities compliant imaging devices and modalities
Supported Imaging Non-contrast CT (NCCT) Non-contrast CT (NCCT)
Modality
Alteration of Original No No
Image
Algorithm Type Locked AI/ML Locked AI/ML
Output Multiple electronic reports with volumetric Multiple electronic reports with volumetric
information of brain structures indicative of information of brain structures and midline shift
intracranial hyperdensities and annotated DICOM and annotated DICOM Images
Images
Inclusion of a PCCP Included None
12 Predetermined Change Control Plan (PCCP)
Brainomix 360 Hyperdensity contains a Predetermined Change Control Plan (PCCP), which complies with Section
3308 of the Food and Drug Omnibus Reform Act (FDORA) of 2022, enacted on December 29, 2022. Modifications
to the device will be made in accordance with the PCCP.
The PCCP provides a description of the device’s planned modifications, a modification protocol to test, verify,
validate, and implement the modifications in a manner that ensures the continued safety and effectiveness of the
device. This protocol also includes control measures that mitigate risks associated with changes to the AI/ML
algorithm, including an impact assessment of the planned modifications, to ensure modifications conducted in line
with the modification protocol will not adversely impact the device’s performance, safety, or effectiveness
associated with its indications for use. Updates implemented under the PCCP do not change the device’s clinical
role, user workflow, or interpretation of results. In accordance with the PCCP, all algorithm modifications will be
trained, tuned, and locked prior to release of the software to the end user. The PCCP does not include provisions
for implementation of adaptive algorithms that will continuously learn in the field.
Brainomix 360 is provided as a complete software appliance that can be deployed on virtual machines (VMs) or a
dedicated physical server. Any software updates resulting from a modification implemented in accordance with the
authorized PCCP will be deployed by Brainomix and will not require action by the end user. Any changes will be
communicated through release notes provided to the user prior to deployment of the updated software version.
This information is provided to ensure users remain informed of applicable changes and are able to continue to use
the device safely and effectively within the cleared indications for use. The PCCP specifies a list of potential
modifications to the device software as well as specific verification and validation activities in place to implement
these modifications in a controlled manner such that the modified device remains safe and effective.
Modification Rationale Testing methods Impact assessment
Retraining the model The modification is Testing method will follow the Benefits: improved segmentation
weights using expanded intended to address same software verification and accuracy and volumetric precision
underrepresentation and validation framework appliedModification Rationale Testing methods Impact assessment
datasets enriched for morphological variability to the originally cleared device. Risks: reduction in clinical performance
specific subtypes observed in real-world Model performance will be due to overfitting and unintended bias
use. This approach assessed using predefined Risk mitigation: verification and
supports more consistent acceptance criteria, including validation activities continue to
segmentation accuracy and
segmentation and reasonably ensure safety and
volumetric precision metrics.
volumetric quantification effectiveness by applying the same rigor
Testing activities will be used to
across the full range of used for the originally cleared device.
support that the modified
segmentable hemorrhage Acceptance criteria require that
device continues to meet its
presentations within the retraining does not introduce
intended use and does not
unacceptable degradation in
authorized scope. raise new questions of safety or
segmentation accuracy or volumetric
effectiveness compared to the
precision for the intended use
predicate device.
population.
Adjustment of The modification enables Testing method will follow the Benefits: improved segmentation
probability thresholds optimized segmentation same software verification and accuracy and volumetric precision
for specific subtype behavior and volumetric validation framework applied
Risks: reduction in clinical performance
classes to optimize accuracy for targeted to the originally cleared device.
due to over- or under-segmentation,
performance subtypes, while Model performance will be
volumetric distortion and unintended
preserving the underlying assessed using predefined
bias
learned representations. acceptance criteria, including
This enables fine-grained segmentation accuracy and Risk mitigation: verification and
performance optimization volumetric precision metrics. validation activities continue to
without introducing new Testing activities will be used to reasonably ensure safety and
autonomous behavior or support that the modified effectiveness by applying the same rigor
expanding clinical claims. device continues to meet its used for the originally cleared device.
intended use and does not Acceptance criteria require that
raise new questions of safety or threshold tuning does not introduce
effectiveness compared to the unacceptable degradation in
predicate device. segmentation accuracy or volumetric
precision for the intended use
population.
Modifications implemented under the PCCP are limited to performance optimization and do not introduce new
indications for use, alter user workflow, or change the fundamental algorithmic approach. As such, the inclusion of
the PCCP does not affect the determination of substantial equivalence between the subject device and the
predicate device.
13 Conclusion
The subject device has a subset of indications for use and technological characteristics of the predicate device. Both
devices are intended to be used as aid to physicians for identifying, labeling and quantifying segmentable brain
structures on NCCT images. Because of the similarities regarding the type of algorithms, the type of imaging data
processed by the devices, the intended use of the devices, and the outputs of the image analysis, the difference in
the number of outputs types in the subject device (no lateral ventricle volume and midline shift) does not raise new
or unanswered questions regarding safety or efficacy.
We conclude that the subject device is safe and effective, raises no unanswered questions with regards to safety
and efficacy and is substantially equivalent to the predicate device, Viz HDS (K232363).