May 21, 2026
Smart Alfa Teknoloji San. Ve Tic. A.S.
Utku Kaya
Chief Executive Officer
Universiteler Mah. Ihsan Dogramaci Blv. No:17-1 #109
Cankaya
Ankara, 06800
Turkey
Re: K260234
Trade/Device Name: MSK Go
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: May 6, 2026
Received: May 6, 2026
Dear Utku Kaya:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.05
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK260234 - Utku Kaya Page 2
FDA's substantial equivalence determination also included the review and clearance of your Predetermined
Change Control Plan (PCCP). Under section 515C(b)(1) of the Act, a new premarket notification is not
required for a change to a device cleared under section 510(k) of the Act, if such change is consistent with an
established PCCP granted pursuant to section 515C(b)(2) of the Act. Under 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3), a new
premarket notification is required if there is a major change or modification in the intended use of a device,
or if there is a change or modification in a device that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of
the device, e.g., a significant change or modification in design, material, chemical composition, energy
source, or manufacturing process. Accordingly, if deviations from the established PCCP result in a major
change or modification in the intended use of the device, or result in a change or modification in the device
that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, then a new premarket notification
would be required consistent with section 515C(b)(1) of the Act and 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3). Failure to submit
such a premarket submission would constitute adulteration and misbranding under sections 501(f)(1)(B) and
502(o) of the Act, respectively.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on theseK260234 - Utku Kaya Page 3
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureI
T
M
cuM
[
IM
I
[l] O v e r-T h e -C o u n te r U s e (2 1 C F R 8 0 1 S u b p a rt a p p lic a b le ). C)
Z P re s c rip tio n P le a s e s e le c t th e ty p e s o f u s e s (s e le c t o n e o r b o th , a s D ) U s e (2 1 C F R 8 0 1 S u b p a rt
h e fo llo w in g jo in t re g io n s a re s u p p o rte d : S h o u ld e r,E lb o w , H a n d a n d W ris t, K n e e , F o o t a n d A n k le
S K G o is n o t in te n d e d fo r d ia g n o s tic p u rp o s e s , o r to re p la c e c lin ic a l d e c is io n -m a k in g .
o m p a tib le u ltra s o u n d s y s te m s . M S K G o is in d ic a te d fo r u s e in a d u lt p a tie n ts 1 8 y e a rs o f a g e o r o ld e r.
ltra s o u n d b y h ig h lig h tin g a n a to m ic a l s tru c tu re s o n m u s c u lo s k e le ta l u ltra s o u n d im a g e s a c q u ire d u s in g th
S K G o is in d ic a te d to a s s is t h e a lth c a re p ro fe s s io n a ls tra in e d a n d q u a lifie d in M S K (m u s c u lo s k e le ta l)
P le a s e p ro v id e y o u r In d ic a tio n s fo r U s e b e lo w .
S K G o
P le a s e p ro v id e th e d e v ic e tra d e n a m e (s ).
te x tb o x w ill b e le ft b la n k fo r o rig in a l a p p lic a tio n s /s u b m is s io n s .
K 2 6 0 2 3 4 T h is n u m b e r, k n o w n . is a p p lic a tio n /s u b m is s io n m a rk e tin g it in th e ty p e if P le a s e
I n d i c a t i o n s f o r U s e
e
IK260234
510(k) Summary
Applicant Details
Name: Smart Alfa Teknoloji San. Ve Tic. A.Ş.
Address: Universiteler Mah. Ihsan Dogramaci Blv.
No:17/1-109, 06800 Ankara, Türkiye
Contact Name: Utku KAYA
utku.kaya@smartalpha.ai
Date Prepared : January 19, 2026
Device Details
Device Trade Name : MSK Go
Common Name : Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management and Processing System
Regulatory Class : Class II
Product Code : QIH
Predicate Device Details
Device Trade Name: Clarius AI (K222406)
Common Name : Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management and Processing System
Regulatory Class : Class II
Product code: QIH
Device Description
MSK Go is a software as a medical device (SaMD) designed to assist healthcare
professionals in the visualization and identification of musculoskeletal (MSK) anatomy
in ultrasound images by highlighting anatomical structures.
MSK Go operates within compatible diagnostic ultrasound systems and receives the
ultrasound image stream from the host system. It provides assistive visual feedback to
the ultrasound operator through the ultrasound system user interface in the form of
anatomical name labels, color overlays and a detection indicator that reflects the
detection completeness level of supported anatomical structures for the current image.
1While it enhances anatomy visualization, it does not guide image acquisition or provide
any diagnostic decision replacing the clinician’s expertise.
MSK Go is compatible with GE HealthCare Venue Go™ and Venue Sprint™ ultrasound
systems (K251322).
Indications for Use
MSK Go is indicated to assist healthcare professionals trained and qualified in MSK
(musculoskeletal) ultrasound by highlighting anatomical structures on MSK ultrasound
images acquired using the compatible ultrasound systems. MSK Go is indicated for use
in adult patients 18 years of age or older.
MSK Go is not intended for diagnostic purposes, or to replace clinical decision-making.
MSK Go is for use in the following joints:
• Shoulder
• Elbow
• Wrist and Hand
• Knee
• Ankle and Foot
Substantial Equivalence
The following table presents a comparison of the subject device, MSK Go, with the
predicate device, Clarius AI. The comparison shows that MSK Go has similar indications
for use, employs a comparable AI-enabled image processing approach, and provides
automated musculoskeletal ultrasound image processing through anatomical structure
detection and segmentation, consistent with the legally marketed predicate device.
Subject Device Predicate Device Comments
MSK Go Clarius AI
(K222406)
Manufacturer Smart Alfa Teknoloji San. Clarius Mobile Health -
ve Tic. A.Ş. Corp.
Regulation 21 CFR 892.2050 21 CFR 892.2050 Same
Number
2Regulatory Class II Class II Same
Class
Product Code QIH QIH Same
Regulation Medical Image Medical Image Same
Name Management and Management and
Processing System Processing System
Device Automated Radiological Automated Radiological Same
Classification Image Processing Image Processing
Name Software Software
Rx/OTC Rx Rx Same
Operational Not to be used as a Not to be used as a Same
Mode diagnostic device diagnostic device
Intended use Non-invasive processing Non-invasive processing The predicate device
of ultrasound images of ultrasound images provides an additional
using automatic image using automatic image function for caliper
segmentation of segmentation and placement on the
anatomical structures measurement of segmentation, while the
utilizing artificial anatomical structures subject device does
intelligence algorithms. utilizing artificial not. The subject device
intelligence algorithms. supports a broader
range of anatomical
structures and provides
a detection indicator
that reflects detection
completeness of
supported anatomical
structures.
Indications MSK Go is intended for Clarius AI is intended for Both devices are
for use use by trained healthcare use by trained healthcare intended for processing
professionals to professionals to semi ultrasound images for
automatically identify automatically place anatomy segmentation.
and segment anatomy calipers for non-invasive Predicate device
on ultrasound data anatomical measurements provides caliper
acquired by compatible on ultrasound data placement on the
ultrasound systems. acquired by the Clarius segmentation while the
Ultrasound Scanner. subject device only
highlights.
3Anatomical Multiple structures in Single structure in single The subject device
Site multiple views of views of Knee, Foot/Ankle supports a broader
Shoulder, Elbow, range of joints,
Hand/Wrist, Knee, including multiple
Foot/Ankle views and
musculoskeletal
structures.
Intended Use Healthcar e setting Healthcare setting Same
Environment
Intended Healthcare professionals Licensed healthcare Same
users who are trained and professionals who are
qualified in MSK trained and qualified in
(musculoskeletal) MSK (musculoskeletal)
ultrasound. ultrasound.
Target Patients 18 years of age Patients 18 years of age or Same
Population or older. older.
Device Software integrated into Software integrated into Same
hardware compatible ultrasound compatible ultrasound
system's software. system’s software.
Input MSK ultrasound images MSK ultrasound images Same
Output MSK ultrasound images MSK ultrasound images Similar; the subject
with highlighted with highlighted anatomy device also displays a
anatomy and a detection and automatic placement detection indicator that
indicator. of measurement calipers reflects the detection
for anatomical structures completeness of
(tendons) anatomical structures.
Additionally, the
predicate device
provides caliper
placement on the
highlighted structures.
Imaging Ultrasound Ultrasound Same
Modality
Image source Compatible ultrasound Compatible ultrasound Same
systems through a systems through a
programming interface programming interface
4Software Yes Yes Same
device that
operates on
off-the-shelf
hardware
Device uses Yes Yes Same
AI/ML
algorithms
Algorithm Locked deep learning Locked deep learning Same
type models models
Summary of Non-Clinical Performance Testing
MSK Go was designed and developed in accordance with applicable requirements,
design controls, and standards to establish safety and effectiveness of the device.
Non-clinical performance testing has demonstrated that MSK Go complies with the
following FDA-recognized consensus standards:
Standard
Recognition Title of Standard
Number
IEC 62304:2006 + A1:2015 – Medical device software — Software life
13-79
cycle processes
ISO 14971:2019 – Medical devices — Application of risk
5-40
management to medical devices
IEC 62366-1:2015 + A1:2020 – Medical devices — Part 1: Application
5-114
of usability engineering to medical devices
ISO 15223-1:2016 – Medical devices — Symbols to be used with
5-117
medical device labels, labelling and information to be supplied
Safety and performance of MSK Go has been evaluated through verification and
validation testing in accordance with software specifications and applicable
performance standards. Traceability between requirements, design specifications, risks,
and verification testing of the subject device was established and maintained. All
5software requirements and risk analysis have been successfully verified and traced.
Software verification and validation activities were conducted per IEC 62304:2006 +
AMD1:2015 and ISO 14971:2019, and in accordance with applicable FDA guidance
documents. A comprehensive risk analysis was performed and appropriate risk controls
were implemented to mitigate identified hazards. Applicable software documentation
for a Moderate Level of Concern software has been provided.
Cybersecurity control design and testing were performed in accordance with FDA
cybersecurity guidance for medical device software, addressing prevention of
unauthorized access, modification, misuse, and denial of use. Cybersecurity controls
spanning the device, software, data, and network levels were implemented and verified
through testing. MSK Go was found to conform to applicable cybersecurity
requirements.
MSK Go incorporates artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML) functionality.
The AI/ML model is based on AlphaCNN, a proprietary multi-task convolutional neural
network implementing non-adaptive machine learning algorithms for real-time
anatomical structure detection and segmentation of B-mode ultrasound images. AI/ML
performance verification was conducted using a sequestered test dataset of 17,746
images from 40 subjects, independent from development data at the subject level.
Performance was evaluated against a three-reader expert-defined reference standard
across four endpoints: anatomical structure detection, anatomical structure
highlighting via Dice similarity coefficient, joint view detection, and detection indicator
accuracy.
Summary of Clinical Performance Testing
A prospectively acquired ultrasound image dataset spanning five joint regions
(Shoulder, Elbow, Wrist & Hand, Knee, Ankle & Foot) was used for clinical validation.
All images had expert-annotated reference standards for joint view classification,
anatomical structure detection, and segmentation. Images were captured by licensed
healthcare professionals at three U.S. clinical sites. The validation dataset was
independent from the development dataset in all aspects. A total of 15,600 images
from 3,017 ultrasound scans of 79 subjects were included in the analysis.
The validation dataset included representation across key demographic and clinical
variables as summarized below:
6Category Subgroup %
Hispanic or Latino 38
Ethnicity
Not Hispanic or Latino 62
American Indian or Alaska Native 5
Asian 10
Race Black or African American 20
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander 2
White 63
Female 54
Gender
Male 46
< 30 (17.27–29.9) 64
BMI
≥ 30 (30–50.9) 36
18–34 47
35–49 23
Age (years)
50–64 21
≥ 65 9
Present in at least one joint 62
Sonographic
Finding
Not present 38
MSK Go software outputs were compared post hoc against a clinical reference standard
established by four musculoskeletal ultrasound experts using consensus-based
adjudication. The evaluated features included: (1) joint view detection, (2) anatomical
structure detection, (3) anatomical structure segmentation (highlighting), and (4)
detection indicator. Detection performance was assessed using Positive Percent
Agreement (PPA) and Negative Percent Agreement (NPA); segmentation performance
was assessed using the Dice Similarity Coefficient. All two-sided 95% confidence
intervals were calculated using a clustered bootstrap resampling methodology, with
subjects treated as the primary sampling unit.
7Joint view detection was evaluated across 39 supported views. Mean PPA across all
views of each joint ranged from 0.95 to 1.00 and mean NPA from 0.98 to 1.00, with
elbow achieving perfect agreement across all evaluated views.
Anatomical structure detection was evaluated across 120 structures in 39 views, where
a Dice threshold of 0.5 was used to define agreement. Mean PPA across all structures
within each joint ranged from 0.93 to 0.95 and mean NPA from 0.98 to 0.99, with NPA
remaining above 0.85 for all evaluated structures. The detection indicator, which
reflects the completeness of supported structures detected, demonstrated
performance consistent with structure detection, with PPA ranging from 0.90 to 1.00
and NPA from 0.97 to 1.00 across all joints and indicator levels.
Segmentation performance was assessed using the Dice Similarity Coefficient. Mean
Dice scores across all structures within each joint ranged from 0.80 to 0.84, with no
individual structure demonstrating a mean Dice value below 0.70 across any joint or
view.
Subgroup analyses across race, age, sex, BMI, ethnicity, clinical site, and sonographic
patient status demonstrated consistent performance across all evaluated endpoints.
The presence of sonographic findings did not adversely affect device performance, and
no clinically meaningful differences were observed across subgroups.
The non-clinical and clinical performance testing results for MSK Go across all five
supported joint regions are relevant to a determination of substantial equivalence. The
results demonstrate that MSK Go performs within the range established by the
predicate device (Clarius AI, K222406) for non-invasive processing of ultrasound
images using automatic image segmentation and highlighting of anatomical structures
utilizing artificial intelligence algorithms, and that any differences in anatomical site or
indications for use do not raise new questions of safety or effectiveness.
Predetermined Change Control Plan (PCCP)
Modifications to MSK Go will be made in accordance with its Predetermined Change
Control Plan (PCCP). The PCCP provides a description of the planned modification, a
modification protocol defining the methods used to verify, validate, and implement the
modification in a controlled manner, and an impact assessment evaluating the
potential effects of the modification on device safety and effectiveness.
8MSK Go operates on ultrasound image data acquired from compatible ultrasound
systems. The PCCP provides a description of the device’s planned modifications for
extending the compatibility to additional ultrasound systems that meet predefined
regulatory, technical, and imaging specifications. This modification is limited to system
integration and image input/output handling and does not involve any changes to the
AI/ML algorithms, model architecture, training parameters, training data, or intended
use of the device.
Testing / Validation
Modification Rationale Impact Assessment
Methods
Benefits: Broader device
compatibility and
To enable
availability while
deployment of
maintaining consistent
MSK Go on System-specific
performance.
additional FDA- verification and
cleared validation using fully
Risks: Variability of image
ultrasound sequestered test
Extending characteristics from new
systems that datasets; performance
the use of ultrasound systems used as
meet evaluation using the
AI-DSF with input source could impact
predefined same metrics, statistical
additional AI/ML performance.
specifications, analysis framework,
ultrasound
thereby and acceptance criteria
systems Risk Mitigation: System-
increasing as the original device;
specific verification and
availability no retraining or model
validation against
without modification
predefined acceptance
modifying the
criteria; integrations not
AI/ML model
meeting criteria are not
released under the PCCP.
Under the PCCP, each additional ultrasound system integration is evaluated
independently using system-specific verification and validation activities. Performance
evaluation is conducted using fully sequestered test datasets collected on the new
ultrasound system, following the same data management practices, reference standard
determination, performance metrics, statistical analysis plan, and acceptance criteria
established for the originally cleared device. No AI/ML model retraining or tuning is
performed as part of this PCCP. If predefined acceptance criteria are not met, the
integration is not released under the PCCP. Implementation of the modification does
not involve software updates to previously deployed systems. Instead, MSK Go is
9deployed through controlled installation at the time of integration with a new
ultrasound system. Post-market monitoring, complaint handling, and vigilance
activities remain unchanged from those applied to the originally cleared device.
Conclusion
The subject device and the predicate device have the same intended use and similar
technological characteristics. Any differences in indications for use or technological
characteristics between the subject device and the legally marketed predicate device
do not raise new questions of safety or effectiveness. Based on the information
provided in this submission, the subject device is substantially equivalent to the
predicate device and is therefore as safe and effective as the legally marketed device.
10