May 22, 2026
Canon Medical Informatics, Inc.
Jay Vaishnav
Director, Regulatory Affairs
5850 Opus Parkway, Suite 300
Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343
Re: K260324
Trade/Device Name: Vitrea CT Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) Planning
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical image management and processing system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: April 23, 2026
Received: April 23, 2026
Dear Jay Vaishnav:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.05
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK260324 - Jay Vaishnav Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-K260324 - Jay Vaishnav Page 3
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
for
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director, Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureIndications for Use
Please type in the marketing application/submission number, if it is known. This
K260324 ?
textbox will be left blank for original applications/submissions.
Please provide the device trade name(s). ?
Vitrea CT Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) Planning
I
Please provide your Indications for Use below. ?
Vitrea CT Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) Planning is a non-invasive post-processing
application designed to assist medical professionals with the assessment of the aortic valve and in pre­
operational planning and post-operative evaluation of transcatheter aortic valve replacement procedures.
Vitrea CT Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) Planning includes general functionality such as:
• The software processes CT (computed tomography) image data to provide 3D segmentation of heart
structures and vessels relevant to approach planning.
• The user can review the 2D and 3D images to select and plan the delivery path.
• The user can determine C-arm angles for use during the procedure.
• The user can verify and adjust the results of segmentation and cross-section measurements.
• The software provides visualization techniques such as volume rendering, MIP, MPR and curved MPR.
• The user can identify and edit contours and the centerline automatically or manually.
• The user can generate a report with relevant approach planning data and measurements for device sizing.
• The software can provide visualization of calcium.
• The user can generate tortuosity calculations along a centerline.
The TAVR Planning Assist feature offers the ability to automatically initialize visualizations and
measurements, that users can edit. The calculation of these outputs utilizes artificial intelligence/machine
learning methods.
Please select the types of uses (select one or both, as IZ] Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D)
D ?
applicable). Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)K260324
Vitrea CT TAVR Planning 510(k) Submission
510(k) Summary - Vitrea CT TAVR Planning
I. Contact Details 21 CFR 807.92(a)(1)
Applicant Name Canon Medical Informatics, Inc.
Applicant Address 5850 Opus Parkway, Suite 300
Minnetonka MN 55343
United States of America
Applicant and Jay Vaishnav, PhD, RAC, FRAPS
Correspondent Director, Regulatory Affairs
Phone 952-487-9530
E-mail Jay.Vaishnav@mi.medical.canon
Alternate Contacts Vincent Swenson
Senior Director, Quality and Regulatory
Phone 952-487-9548
E-mail Vincent.Swenson@mi.medical.canon
Gargeyi Pavuluri
Senior Regulatory Affairs Specialist
Phone 952-487-9875
E-mail Gargeyi.Pavuluri@mi.medical.canon
Alisha Bouley
Associate Regulatory Affairs Specialist
Phone 952-487-9530
E-mail Alisha.Bouley@mi.medical.canon
II. Device Name 21 CFR 807.92(a)(2)
Device Trade Name Vitrea CT Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) Planning
Common Name TAVR Planning
Classification Name Medical image management and processing system
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.2050
Product Code(s) Product Code: QIH
III. Predicate Device 21 CFR 807.92(a)(3)
Predicate # Predicate Trade Name Product Code
K122578 Vitrea CT Transcatheter Aortic Valve LLZ
Replacement (TAVR) Planning
Canon Medical Informatics, Inc. 5850 Opus Parkway, Suite 300 | Minnetonka, MN 55343 USA | mi.medical.canon
Page 1 of 15Vitrea CT TAVR Planning 510(k) Submission
IV. Device Description Summary 21 CFR 807.92(a)(4)
How the Device Functions
The Vitrea CT Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) Planning software is a non-invasive post-
processing application designed to assist medical professionals with the assessment of the aortic valve
and in pre-operational planning and post-operative evaluation of TAVR procedures. The software
processes CT (computed tomography) image data to provide 3D segmentation of heart structures and
vessels relevant to approach planning. It allows users to review 2D and 3D images to select and plan the
delivery path, determine C-arm angles for use during the procedure, verify and adjust the results of
segmentation and cross-section measurements, and generate reports with relevant approach planning
data and measurements for device sizing.
Scientific Concepts That Form the Basis of the Device
The TAVR Planning Assist feature1 incorporates AI/ML methods for segmentation and landmark detection
to establish the valve plane. The software uses deep learning algorithms for identifying anatomical
landmarks. The segmentation module generates preliminary measurement results from the
segmentations and landmarks. The device provides initial values of the aortic root measurements based
on segmentation and landmarks, which the user can edit and review before finalizing a report.
Proposed Conditions for Use
The Vitrea CT TAVR Planning software is intended for use on patients who have been identified as
candidates for TAVR procedures. The software enables assessment and measurement of the aortic valve
and related ventricles, providing techniques to assess the feasibility of a trans-apical, iliac (transfemoral),
or subclavian approach to structures for replacement or repair procedures. The device is for use in a
clinical setting and is intended for qualified users such as cardiologists, radiologists, and clinical
specialists.
Physical and Performance Characteristics of the Device
Physical Characteristics
The device is Software as a Medical Device (SaMD) and has no hardware or material components.
Performance Characteristics
Bench testing on 89 retrospective CT cases demonstrated that the device performs with high accuracy
and strong agreement relative to expert manual measurements, as measured by intraclass correlation
coefficients.2 Bland-Altman analyses showed low measurement bias and variability comparable to human
inter-reader performance. The device showed consistent performance across all subgroups—scanner
type, slice thickness, kVp, calcification severity, demographics, and reconstruction kernels, and the leaflet
visualization feature surpassed acceptance criteria with over 93% of cases rated “Good” or “Excellent” by
1Canon Medical Informatics may market the TAVR Planning Assist feature as TAVR Assist+.
2 LVOT measurement was validated at the default setting of 3 mm from the valve plane
Canon Medical Informatics, Inc. 5850 Opus Parkway, Suite 300 | Minnetonka, MN 55343 USA | mi.medical.canon
Page 2 of 15Vitrea CT TAVR Planning 510(k) Submission
expert readers. Overall, the software demonstrated robust, reliable, and clinically acceptable
performance without introducing new safety or effectiveness concerns.
How the Device Interacts with Other Devices and the Patient
The device is a software application that resides on the Vitrea platform (K172855). The device does not
interact directly with patients; it performs postprocessing operations on CTA DICOM patient images.
Results can be exported to image management, archival, or reporting systems that support DICOM
standards for further review and interpretation. Results can also be saved in DICOM Structured Report
(DICOM SR) format.
V. Intended Use/Indications for Use 21 CFR 807.92(a)(5)
Vitrea CT Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) Planning is a non-invasive post-processing
application designed to assist medical professionals with the assessment of the aortic valve and in pre-
operational planning and post-operative evaluation of transcatheter aortic valve replacement procedures.
Vitrea CT Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) Planning includes general functionality such
as:
• The software processes CT (computed tomography) image data to provide 3D segmentation of heart
structures and vessels relevant to approach planning.
• The user can review the 2D and 3D images to select and plan the delivery path.
• The user can determine C-arm angles for use during the procedure.
• The user can verify and adjust the results of segmentation and cross-section measurements.
• The software provides visualization techniques such as volume rendering, MIP, MPR and curved
MPR.
• The user can identify and edit contours and the centerline automatically or manually. The user can
generate a report with relevant approach planning data and measurements for device sizing.
• The software can provide visualization of calcium.
• The user can generate tortuosity calculations along a centerline.
The TAVR Planning Assist feature offers the ability to automatically initialize visualizations and
measurements, that users can edit. The calculation of these outputs utilizes artificial intelligence/machine
learning methods.
VI. Indications for Use Comparison 21 CFR 807.92(a)(5)
The following text has been added to the IFU, as compared to the predicate:
“The TAVR Planning Assist feature offers the ability to automatically initialize visualizations and
measurements, that users can edit. The calculation of these outputs utilizes artificial
intelligence/machine learning methods.”
The additional text reflects the addition of automatic initialization of device outputs, that does not change
the Intended Use of the subject device from the predicate device. Users retain the ability to edit any
automatically initialized results, and performance testing demonstrates that the automatically initialized
measurements maintain agreement with expert ground-truth and predicate measurements.
VII. Technological Comparison 21 CFR 807.92(a)(6)
Canon Medical Informatics, Inc. 5850 Opus Parkway, Suite 300 | Minnetonka, MN 55343 USA | mi.medical.canon
Page 3 of 15Vitrea CT TAVR Planning 510(k) Submission
The subject and predicate devices are intended for use with CTA DICOM images to support TAVR
planning by measuring aortic root anatomy and vascular access dimensions. The subject device uses
deep learning methods to perform some of the segmentation and landmark identification required to
initialize measurements, whereas the predicate device uses traditional segmentation and pattern
identification algorithms and automatically initializes fewer outputs. The reference device automates some
of the measurements using AI/ML. All automatically initialized outputs from the subject device are user
reviewable and editable. All algorithms and functionality associated with this feature are imported
unchanged from Canon’s previously cleared Endovascular Stent Planning Software (cleared as K091498,
updated K143079). Regression testing was conducted to validate that the functionality integrated
correctly with the rest of the device.
Table 1 summarizes the key feature/technological differences and similarities between the predicate
device and the proposed device:
Canon Medical Informatics, Inc. 5850 Opus Parkway, Suite 300 | Minnetonka, MN 55343 USA | mi.medical.canon
Page 4 of 15Vitrea CT TAVR Planning 510(k) Submission
Table 1: Substantial Equivalence Comparison
Subject Device Predicate Device (K122578)
Vitrea CT TAVR Planning Vitrea CT TAVR Planning Analysis of Similarities and
Characteristic
21 CFR 892.2050 21 CFR 892.2050 Differences
Product Code: QIH Product Code: LLZ
Intended Use Allows users to make measurements that Same Same
assist qualified medical professionals in
either planning TAVR procedures or in
evaluating results post-operatively.
Indications for Use Vitrea CT Transcatheter Aortic Valve Vitrea CT Transcatheter Aortic Valve The following text has been
Replacement (TAVR) Planning is a non- Replacement (TAVR) Planning is a non- added to the IFU:
invasive post-processing application invasive post-processing application “The TAVR Planning Assist
designed to assist medical professionals designed to assist medical professionals feature offers the ability to
with the assessment of the aortic valve and with the assessment of the aortic valve and automatically initialize
in pre-operational planning and post- in pre-operational planning and post- visualizations and
operative evaluation of transcatheter aortic operative evaluation of transcatheter aortic measurements, that users can
valve replacement procedures. valve replacement procedures. edit. The calculation of these
Vitrea CT Transcatheter Aortic Valve Vitrea CT Transcatheter Aortic Valve outputs utilizes artificial
Replacement (TAVR) Planning includes Replacement (TAVR) Planning includes intelligence/machine learning
general functionality such as general functionality such as methods.”
• The software processes CT (computed • The software processes CT (computed
tomography) image data to provide 3D tomography) image data to provide 3D The additional text reflects the
segmentation of heart structures and segmentation of heart structures and addition of automatic
vessels relevant to approach planning. vessels relevant to approach planning. initialization of device outputs,
• The user can review the 2D and 3D • The user can review the 2D and 3D that does not change the
images to select and plan the delivery images to select and plan the delivery Intended Use of the subject
path. path. device from the predicate
• The user can determine C-arm angles • The user can determine C-arm angles device. Users retain the ability
for use during the procedure. for use during the procedure. to edit any automatically
• The user can verify and adjust the • The user can verify and adjust the initialized results, and
results of segmentation and cross- results of segmentation and cross-
performance testing
section measurements. section measurements.
demonstrates that the
Canon Medical Informatics, Inc. 5850 Opus Parkway, Suite 300 | Minnetonka, MN 55343 USA | mi.medical.canon
Page 5 of 15Vitrea CT TAVR Planning 510(k) Submission
Subject Device Predicate Device (K122578)
Vitrea CT TAVR Planning Vitrea CT TAVR Planning Analysis of Similarities and
Characteristic
21 CFR 892.2050 21 CFR 892.2050 Differences
Product Code: QIH Product Code: LLZ
• The software provides visualization • The software provides visualization automatically initialized
techniques such as volume rendering, techniques such as volume rendering, measurements maintain
MIP, MPR and curved MPR. MIP, MPR and curved MPR. agreement with expert
• The user can identify and edit contours • The user can identify and edit contours ground-truth and predicate
and the centerline automatically or and the centerline automatically or measurements.
manually. The user can generate a manually. The user can generate a
report with relevant approach planning report with relevant approach planning
data and measurements for device data and measurements for device
sizing. sizing.
• The software can provide visualization • The software can provide visualization
of calcium. of calcium.
• The user can generate tortuosity • The user can generate tortuosity
calculations along a centerline. calculations along a centerline.
The TAVR Planning Assist feature offers
the ability to automatically initialize
visualizations and measurements, that
users can edit. The calculation of these
outputs utilizes artificial
intelligence/machine learning methods.
Target Population Patients indicated for a TAVR procedure Same Same
Intended Users Cardiologists, Same Same
radiologists and clinical specialists
Anatomical Sites Aortic valve and ventricles Same Same
Use Environment Clinical environment Same Same
Canon Medical Informatics, Inc. 5850 Opus Parkway, Suite 300 | Minnetonka, MN 55343 USA | mi.medical.canon
Page 6 of 15Vitrea CT TAVR Planning 510(k) Submission
Subject Device Predicate Device (K122578)
Vitrea CT TAVR Planning Vitrea CT TAVR Planning Analysis of Similarities and
Characteristic
21 CFR 892.2050 21 CFR 892.2050 Differences
Product Code: QIH Product Code: LLZ
Human Factors The software is designed for use on a Same Same
radiology workstation
Use of Contrast The software requires contrast enhanced Same Same
CTA images
DICOM Standard The software processes DICOM-compliant Same Same
Compliance CT image data
Image Display and Visualization
Provides an option to Yes Yes Same
display vascular
anatomy in stretched
MPR, orthogonal,
multi-dimensional,
curved MPR, oblique,
MIP, MinIP, and 3D
views.
Allows visualization of Yes Yes Same
calcium
Image Processing, including Segmentation and Measurement
Measurements of The software uses AI/ML algorithms to Users can manually make the following The subject device initializes
aortic structures automatically initialize the following measurements: some of the measurements that
measurements (the user can edit the • Aortic annulus contour measurements a user had to make manually in
initialized value): (area, perimeter, min/max/effective the predicate. The initialization
diameters)
• Aortic annulus contour measurements uses locked AI/ML algorithms in
• Annulus to Left Main coronary artery
(area, perimeter, min/max/effective segmentation and landmark
(LM) height
diameters)
detection.
• Annulus to Left Main coronary artery • Annulus to Right Coronary Artery
(RCA) height
(LM) height.
• Annulus to Right Coronary Artery • Aortic root coronal angle The predicate device allowed the
(RCA) height. • Left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) user to make and label any
• Aortic root coronal angle. contour measurements (area, measurement, but the subject
perimeter, min/max/effective
device explicitly adds the max
diameters)
Canon Medical Informatics, Inc. 5850 Opus Parkway, Suite 300 | Minnetonka, MN 55343 USA | mi.medical.canon
Page 7 of 15Vitrea CT TAVR Planning 510(k) Submission
Subject Device Predicate Device (K122578)
Vitrea CT TAVR Planning Vitrea CT TAVR Planning Analysis of Similarities and
Characteristic
21 CFR 892.2050 21 CFR 892.2050 Differences
Product Code: QIH Product Code: LLZ
• Left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) • Sinotubular junction (STJ) contour ascending aorta contour
contour measurements (area, measurements (area, perimeter, measurements to the list of
perimeter, min/max/effective min/max/effective diameters)
available manual
diameters). • Sinotubular Junction (STJ) height
measurements.
• The sinus of Valsalva cusp to • Sinus of Valsalva contour
The user has the ability to edit all
commissure distance measurements measurements (area, perimeter,
min/max/effective diameters) initialized outputs and must
Users can manually make the following • Sinus of Valsalva height manually approve all output
measurements: • Sinus of Valsalva cusp to commissure before reporting.
• Sinotubular junction (STJ) contour distances
measurements (area, perimeter,
Users can also make any other manual
min/max/effective diameters)
• Sinotubular Junction (STJ) height measurement they choose, and label it
• Sinus of Valsalva contour appropriately.
measurements (area, perimeter,
min/max/effective diameters)
• Sinus of Valsalva height
• Max ascending aorta contour
measurements (area, perimeter,
min/max/effective diameters)
Users can also make any other manual
measurement they choose, and label it
appropriately.
Vascular access Algorithms and functionality associated The software initializes the following The predicate device initialized
measurements with vascular access features have been measurements (the user can edit the one vascular access
replaced with the version from Canon’s initialized value, and AI/ML is not used in measurement.
previously cleared Endovascular Stent the initialization): The subject device replaces the
Planning Software (cleared as K091498, • Left & right iliac maximum tortuosity vascular access algorithm with
updated K143079). the version from Canon’s
Users can manually make the following
previously cleared Endovascular
measurements:
Canon Medical Informatics, Inc. 5850 Opus Parkway, Suite 300 | Minnetonka, MN 55343 USA | mi.medical.canon
Page 8 of 15Vitrea CT TAVR Planning 510(k) Submission
Subject Device Predicate Device (K122578)
Vitrea CT TAVR Planning Vitrea CT TAVR Planning Analysis of Similarities and
Characteristic
21 CFR 892.2050 21 CFR 892.2050 Differences
Product Code: QIH Product Code: LLZ
The software initializes the following • Left & right femoral iliac minimum Stent Planning Software (cleared
measurements (the user can edit the diameter as K091498, updated K143079),
• Left & right external iliac minimum
initialized value): that initializes all the vascular
diameter
• Left & right iliac maximum tortuosity access measurements.
• Left & right common iliac minimum
• Left & right femoral iliac minimum For both devices, automatic
diameter
diameter
• Minimum abdominal aorta diameter initialization does not use AI/ML.
• Left & right external iliac minimum
For both devices, the user has
diameter
the ability to edit, and is required
• Left & right common iliac minimum
diameter to review, all initialized values.
• Minimum abdominal aorta diameter
Integration testing was
The initialization does not use AI/ML. performed to ensure that the
integration of previously cleared
algorithms did not impact the
safety and effectiveness of the
device.
Segmentation and Semi-automated; adds segmentation of Semi-automated Subject device adds
display of aortic aortic leaflets for qualitative visualization visualization of leaflets. The
structures purposes only
visualization was evaluated by
expert readers and does not
impact the safety and
effectiveness of the device as
compared to the predicate.
Detection of annulus Semi-automated Same Same
plane
Detection of Semi-automated detection of Manual identification of the same The subject device uses AI/ML
anatomical landmarks • right coronary cusp landmark, landmarks methods to automatically detect
• left coronary cusp landmark, several landmarks that had to be
• non-coronary cusp landmark, identified manually in the
Canon Medical Informatics, Inc. 5850 Opus Parkway, Suite 300 | Minnetonka, MN 55343 USA | mi.medical.canon
Page 9 of 15Vitrea CT TAVR Planning 510(k) Submission
Subject Device Predicate Device (K122578)
Vitrea CT TAVR Planning Vitrea CT TAVR Planning Analysis of Similarities and
Characteristic
21 CFR 892.2050 21 CFR 892.2050 Differences
Product Code: QIH Product Code: LLZ
• right coronary ostium and left coronary predicate. The user can edit and
ostium. must review any automatic
output before reporting.
Reference device K233209 also
uses AI/ML methods for
automatic TAVR planning
functionality.
Detection of relevant Semi-automated Same Same
vessel centerlines and
calculation of
diameter, area, and
tortuosity
Contour detection Semi-automated contour detection with Same Same
diameter, area, and distance
measurements of annulus plane, as well
as distance to each coronary ostia from the
annulus plane
Use of AI/ML methods Uses AI/ML for segmentation and Does not use AI/ML The predicate device does not
landmark detection. use any AI/ML.
The TAVR planning feature in
Reference device K233209 uses
AI/ML.
The use of AI/ML in automatic
initialization of device outputs
does not change the Intended
Use of the subject device from
that of the predicate device.
Canon Medical Informatics, Inc. 5850 Opus Parkway, Suite 300 | Minnetonka, MN 55343 USA | mi.medical.canon
Page 10 of 15Vitrea CT TAVR Planning 510(k) Submission
Subject Device Predicate Device (K122578)
Vitrea CT TAVR Planning Vitrea CT TAVR Planning Analysis of Similarities and
Characteristic
21 CFR 892.2050 21 CFR 892.2050 Differences
Product Code: QIH Product Code: LLZ
Users retain the ability to edit
any automatically initialized
results, and performance testing
demonstrates that the
automatically initialized
measurements maintain
agreement with expert
ground-truth and predicate
measurements.
Reporting
The software provides Yes Yes Same
tools to generate
reports to distribute
findings.
DICOM SR Yes No Users can export reports in a
Structured Report format, if they
have a license.
Canon Medical Informatics, Inc. 5850 Opus Parkway, Suite 300 | Minnetonka, MN 55343 USA | mi.medical.canon
Page 11 of 15Vitrea CT TAVR Planning 510(k) Submission
In summary, the main difference between the subject and predicate device is that the subject device adds
AI/ML based automatic initialization of aortic root measurements, whereas the predicate device only
allowed the user to make these measurements manually. These differences do not raise new questions
of safety or effectiveness. The subject device's algorithms have been validated through performance
testing, meeting pre-specified acceptance criteria and demonstrating accuracy and reliability.
The new functionality is similar to that in reference device K233209 (uOmnispace.CT, United
Imaging), which also makes AI/ML enabled semi-automated measurements of the aortic root.
VIII. Non-Clinical and/or Clinical Tests, Summary and Conclusions
The device was trained and tuned using diverse retrospective CT data representing a wide range of
patient anatomies, acquisition protocols, scanner manufacturers, and disease presentations relevant to
TAVR planning. The training set consisted of 218 cases.
The validation dataset for the aortic root measurements included 89 independent TAVR CT planning
cases spanning multiple U.S. and international institutions, with diversity in demographics (age, sex),
imaging characteristics (scanner vendor, scanner model, slice thickness, kVp), and calcification severity.
Scanner representation included Canon, GE, Philips, and Siemens systems).
Characteristics of the dataset follow:
Demographic distribution (Gender, Age, Ethnicity)
Gender
• Female: 30
• Male: 42
• Unknown: 17
Age
• 50–59 years: 2
• 60–69 years: 8
• 70–79 years: 15
• 80–89 years: 20
• 90–99 years: 5
• Unknown: 39
Ethnicity
Structured race and ethnicity data were not available in the anonymized dataset. Geographic
and site diversity were used as a proxy for racial and ethnic diversity, based on U.S. Census
data for the contributing regions. The sites used included a mix of academic, community, and
federal hospitals spanning four major US geographic regions, as well as data from outside the
US.
Canon Medical Informatics, Inc. 5850 Opus Parkway, Suite 300 | Minnetonka, MN 55343 USA | mi.medical.canon
Page 12 of 15Vitrea CT TAVR Planning 510(k) Submission
Clinical Subgroups and Confounders
The validation dataset was intentionally designed to include these clinical subgroups and
confounders, with subgroup performance analyses performed:
• Sex: Male, Female, Unknown
• Age: 50–79 years, ≥80 years, Unknown
• Valve Calcification Severity: None (n=18), Mild/Moderate (n=35), Severe (n=36)
The validation dataset also includes challenging and edge cases related to anatomy and imaging
conditions:
• LVOT calcification
• Horizontal aorta (high coronal angle)
• Reduced IV contrast
• Low kVp imaging (<120 kVp)
Exclusions
• Cases with severe motion artifacts
• Poor contrast or non-diagnostic phases
Equipment and Protocols for Image Acquisition
CT Equipment
• Scanners from Canon, Siemens, GE, and Philips were used.
Imaging Protocol Parameters
• Slice thickness: ≤1.0 mm (subgroups ≤0.5 mm, >0.5–1.0 mm).
• Tube energy: 100–120 kVp.
• Cardiac phases: systolic (20–30%) and diastolic (~80%).
Truthing Process
• Ground truth measurements were determined by two independent, board-certified cardiac
CT readers.
• The FDA-cleared predicate device was used to manually generate these measurements.
• Each reader was unaware of the other's findings and did not see the automated results.
• For every measurement, the ground truth was established by averaging the values from
both readers.
• Agreement between the readers was documented to ensure consistency with the TAVR
literature previously published.
Validation truthers were completely independent of training truthers. The validation dataset was
retrospective and distinct from any training activities. The device performance was measured by
comparing device outputs with ground truth created manually by expert physicians. The overall device
performance is summarized in Table 2.
Table 2: Measurement Accuracy (Retrospective validation; n=89)
Intra-Class Acceptance Bland-Altman Bias
Measurement 95% CI
Correlation (ICC) criterion (%)
Canon Medical Informatics, Inc. 5850 Opus Parkway, Suite 300 | Minnetonka, MN 55343 USA | mi.medical.canon
Page 13 of 15Vitrea CT TAVR Planning 510(k) Submission
Annulus area (mm²) 0.95 >0.90 [0.92, 0.96] -4.1%
Annulus perimeter
0.94 >0.90 [0.91, 0.96] -2.5%
(mm)
Derived diameter
0.95 [0.92, 0.97] -1.9%
(mm) >0.90
Min diameter (mm) 0.91 >0.85 [0.87, 0.94] -1.9%
Max diameter (mm) 0.93 >0.85 [0.90, 0.95] -2.8%
LM coronary height
0.91 >0.80 [0.87, 0.94] 3.0%
(mm)
RCA coronary height
0.94 >0.80 [0.91, 0.96] -2.4%
(mm)
Aortic root angle (°) 0.97 >0.90 [0.95, 0.98] 1.0%
LVOT area (mm²) 0.92 >0.90 [0.89, 0.95] -5.4%
LVOT perimeter
0.91 >0.90 [0.86, 0.94] -3.0%
(mm)
LVOT derived
diameter (mm) 0.93 >0.90 [0.90, 0.95] -2.4%
LVOT min diameter
0.92 >0.90 [0.87, 0.94] -2.4%
(mm)
LVOT max diameter
0.86 >0.90 [0.80, 0.91] -3.6%
(mm)
Sinus of Valsalva R
0.96 >0.90 [0.93, 0.97] -1.0%
(mm)
Sinus of Valsalva L
0.96 >0.90 [0.95, 0.98] -1.0%
(mm)
Sinus of Valsalva NC
0.97 >0.90 [0.95, 0.98] 0.1%
(mm)
All primary measurements met their pre specified acceptance criteria except for the LVOT maximum
diameter, which demonstrated a slightly lower ICC; however, the associated absolute differences and
‑
Bland–Altman limits of agreement were small, within clinically acceptable margins, and not expected to
affect annular sizing or overall clinical use.
Comprehensive subgroup analyses across CT scanner vendors, slice thickness, tube energy,
reconstruction kernels, calcification severity, patient age, sex, and geographic distribution showed
consistent performance. A lower ICC observed in a female-only subgroup was determined to be due to a
single case with severe motion artifact and a very narrow measurement range, conditions under which
ICC is not a reliable indicator of accuracy; absolute error and Bland–Altman results for the subgroup were
consistent with the overall dataset. These isolated deviations were attributed to limitations on the quality
of the input image rather than systematic algorithm behavior and do not impact device safety or
effectiveness.
Canon Medical Informatics, Inc. 5850 Opus Parkway, Suite 300 | Minnetonka, MN 55343 USA | mi.medical.canon
Page 14 of 15Vitrea CT TAVR Planning 510(k) Submission
The optional aortic leaflet coloring feature was evaluated separately using a multi reader Likert scale
quality assessment, with over 93% of cases rated Good or Excellent, exceeding acceptance criteria.
‑ ‑ ‑
Overall, the bench testing demonstrated that the device performs as intended, with measurement
accuracy comparable to expert clinical assessment, supporting substantial equivalence to the predicate
device.
Conclusion on Non-Clinical Testing
The non-clinical testing of the CT TAVR Planning Assist demonstrated that the device delivers accurate
and reliable measurements for key anatomical parameters relevant to TAVR planning. Performance
validation using retrospective CT datasets confirmed strong agreement between the device outputs and
clinician-generated ground truth measurements, with high intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) across
all measured parameters. The results indicate minimal bias and narrow confidence intervals, supporting
the device's precision and consistency. Collectively, these findings confirm that the device’s AI-assisted
workflow is robust and suitable for its intended use in pre-procedural planning, meeting the established
performance criteria without introducing new questions of safety or effectiveness.
IX. Substantial Equivalence Analysis Conclusion
The results of the non-clinical and performance validation testing demonstrate that the subject device is
as safe and effective as the predicate device for its intended use. The TAVR planning measurements
demonstrate robust agreement to clinician-generated ground truth, with no evidence of clinically
significant bias or performance variability across subgroups. The aortic leaflet segmentation delivered
consistently high visualization quality. These findings support the substantial equivalence of the device to
the predicate devices, wot no new questions of safety or effectiveness raised by its introduction.
Therefore, the CT TAVR Planning Assist device meets the requirements for market clearance under the
510(k) pathway.
Canon Medical Informatics, Inc. 5850 Opus Parkway, Suite 300 | Minnetonka, MN 55343 USA | mi.medical.canon
Page 15 of 15