June 22, 2026
Cercare Medical A/S
℅ Jennifer Willner
President
JW Regulatory Consulting, LLC
406 Wacouta St., Unit 417
Saint Paul, Minnesota 55101
Re: K260316
Trade/Device Name: CMN Capillary Function with Oncology Virtual Expert
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH, LLZ
Dated: May 14, 2026
Received: May 14, 2026
Dear Jennifer Willner:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.05
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK260316 - Jennifer Willner Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. SeeK260316 - Jennifer Willner Page 3
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Daniel M. Krainak, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
DHT8C: Division of Radiological
Imaging and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureDEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Food and Drug Administration
Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
Indications for Use See PRA Statement below.
510(k) Number (if known)
K260316
Device Name
CMN Capillary Function with Oncology Virtual Expert
Indications for Use (Describe)
Cercare Medical Neurosuite (CMN) and associated modules is an image processing software package to be used by
trained professionals, including physicians and medical technicians.
The CMN software package runs on standard off-the-shelf computer or a virtual platform, such as VMware, and can be
used to perform image viewing, processing, and analysis of images. Data and images are acquired through DICOM
(Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine) compliant imaging devices. CMN provides viewing capabilities of
datasets acquired with MRI and CT.
The Capillary Function module provides analysis capabilities for functional and dynamic imaging datasets acquired with
MRI including a Diffusion Weighted MRI (DWI) Module and a Dynamic Analysis Module (dynamic contrast-enhanced
imaging data for MRI and CT). The Capillary Function module is used for visualization and analysis of dynamic imaging
data, showing properties of changes in contrast over time. This functionality includes calculation of parameters related to
tissue flow (perfusion) and tissue blood volume. In addition, the Capillary Function module's DWI technology is used to
visualize local water diffusion properties from the analysis of diffusion-weighted MRI data.
Oncology Virtual Expert is intended for semi-automatic labeling, visualization, and volumetric quantification of brain
glioma (WHO Grade II through IV), including glioblastoma (WHO Grade IV), astrocytoma (WHO Grade II, III, and IV),
and oligodendroglioma (WHO Grade III), from a set of standard MRI images of adult patients who are known to have
pathologically proven glioma. Volumetric measurements may be automatically compared to prior measurements when
available; to minimize measurement variability, such longitudinal comparisons should be performed using the same
scanner model and consistent acquisition parameters. Oncology Virtual Expert is not to be used for primary diagnosis and
is intended to be used by trained professionals as an additional source of information for decision support.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
“An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”
FORM FDA 3881 (8/23) Page 1 of 1 PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740 EF510(K) SUMMARY
510(k) Number: K260316
Date Prepared: June 17, 2026
Table 1: Submitter Information
Manufacturer: Cercare Medical A/S Manufacturer’s Contact Person:
Inge Lehmanns Gade 10 Mikkel Bo Hansen
DK-8000 Aarhus C Chief Scientific Officer
Denmark Phone: +45 22890125
US FDA ERN: 3019844085 Email: mbh@cercare-medical.com
Table 2: Device Information
Trade Name CMN Capillary Function with Oncology Virtual Expert
Common Name CMN Capillary Function with Oncology Virtual Expert
Classification Name Medical Image Management and Processing System
Regulation 21 CFR 892.2050
Product Code QIH & LLZ
Regulatory Classification: Class II
Device Panel: Radiology (OHT8)
CMN Capillary Function with Oncology Virtual Expert is substantially equivalent to the NS-
HGlio Predicate Device (Table 3) and its base platform (CMN Capillary Function) is identical to
the base platform of the CMN Capillary Function with Virtual Expert Reference Device (Table
4). Neither of these have been subject to a design-related recall.
Table 3: Predicate Devices
Predicate Device Manufacturer FDA 510(k)
NS-HGlio Neosoma, Inc. K221738
Table 4: Reference Device
Predicate Device Manufacturer FDA 510(k)
CMN Capillary Function with Virtual Expert Cercare Medical A/S K241989
Device Description
Cercare Medical Neurosuite is a software-only device designed to streamline medical image
processing by providing for the visualization and study of medical images. CMN can be installed
on a customer PC, or it can be accessed remotely using remote desktop technologies. CMN
provides viewing, quantification, analysis and reporting capabilities. CMN is not intended as a
dedicated PACS system for long term persistent storage of patient data.
Cercare Medical A/S June 2026CMN is software that is intended for use by trained professionals, including physicians and
medical technicians. The software provides cerebral image processing capabilities for providing
important clinical markers in time-critical management of suspected acute ischemic stroke
patients.CMN is intended to be used as decision support software only andthe
cliniciancontinues to provide all treatment decisions.
The software is intended to visualize and study neuroimaging by image viewing and registration
of medical images. CMN works with MRI (Magnetic Resonance Image) and CT (computed
tomography) technologies.
CMN accepts and produces data sets in the DICOM format. DICOM is a standard format for
storing and transmitting medical image data in vendor neutral format andis managed by the
DICOM Standards Committee.CMN also supports DICOM Structured Reporting (DICOM SR)
for documenting quantitative results of study analyses.
CMN is a platform that allows for the addition of certain modules for further analysis, including
Capillary Function and Oncology Virtual Expert modules. The CMN platform and Capillary
Function module are identical to the Reference Device (K241989) while the Oncology Virtual
Expert module is the subject of this premarket application.
Oncology Virtual Expert
Oncology Virtual Expert, when added to the installed CMN Capillary Function, provides further
functionalities for reading, writing, visualizing and other functionalities for studying medical
images.
Oncology Virtual Expert provides post-processing technologies that allow for delineation and
volumetric quantification of perceived pathological tissue that may be related to neuro oncology,
based on primary acquired MRI data including T1 images acquired pre- and post-contrast and
T2FLAIR images. The output provides information that can be used to assess the volume of
pathological tissue for a patient.
Oncology Virtual Expert also allows for extraction of information from other images within the
segmented tumor lesions, such as the mean value and standard deviation for, e.g., perfusion
images obtained through the Capillary Function module. This information, as well as volumetric
information, can be generated as aggregated views across multiple imaging studies for a given
patient.
The output maps generated can be viewed by standard DICOM image viewers. The Oncology
Virtual Expert works with the following technologies:
(cid:120) MRI (Magnetic Resonance Image)
Cercare Medical A/S June 2026Indications for Use
Cercare Medical Neurosuite (CMN) and associated modules is an image processing software
package to be used by trained professionals, including physicians and medical technicians.
The CMN software package runs on standard off-the-shelf computer or a virtual platform, such
as VMware, and can be used to perform image viewing, processing, and analysis of images. Data
and images are acquired through DICOM (Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine)
compliant imaging devices. CMN provides viewing capabilities of datasets acquired with MRI
and CT.
The Capillary Function module provides analysis capabilities for functional and dynamic
imaging datasets acquired with MRI including a Diffusion Weighted MRI (DWI) Module and a
Dynamic Analysis Module (dynamic contrast-enhanced imaging data for MRI and CT). The
Capillary Function module is used for visualization and analysis of dynamic imaging data,
showing properties of changes in contrast over time. This functionality includes calculation of
parameters related to tissue flow (perfusion) and tissue blood volume. In addition, the Capillary
Function module's DWI technology is used to visualize local water diffusion properties from the
analysis of diffusion-weighted MRI data.
Oncology Virtual Expert is intended for semi-automatic labeling, visualization, and volumetric
quantification of brain glioma (WHO Grade II through IV), including glioblastoma (WHO Grade
IV), astrocytoma (WHO Grade II, III, and IV), and oligodendroglioma (WHO Grade III), from a
set of standard MRI images of adult patients who are known to have pathologically proven
glioma. Volumetric measurements may be automatically compared to prior measurements when
available; to minimize measurement variability, such longitudinal comparisons should be
performed using the same scanner model and consistent acquisition parameters. Oncology
Virtual Expert is not to be used for primary diagnosis and is intended to be used by trained
professionals as an additional source of information for decision support.
Technological Characteristics
CMN Capillary Function with Oncology Virtual Expert is image processing software for cerebral
image processing, capable of generating regions of interest for tissue potentially affected by
neuro oncology. The image processing software generates maps of assessed neuro oncology,
intended to be used during management of brain tumors as decision support.
It is emphasized that the output from the software should not be used without close scrutiny of
the relevance to the patient in question, including all available evidence and quality checking of
the appropriateness of the output.
All result images generated by any module (Capillary Function or Oncology Virtual Expert) are
handled and stored by the CMN, which can expose the data to the end user via the associated
graphical user interface or via network communication to other hospital IT systems such as local
picture archive and communication systems (PACS).
Cercare Medical A/S June 2026The Oncology Virtual Expert constitutes the following list of primary functionalities:
(cid:120) Delineation of neuro oncology lesions, including imaging-based tissue classifications:
T2/FLAIR hyperintensity and T1 enhancing tissue (US market); T2/FLAIR
hyperintensity, T1 enhancing tissue, and necrotic tissue (non-US markets)
(cid:120) Volumetric analysis of the individual tissue classifications
(cid:120) Longitudinal comparison of tumor volumes if more than one MRI study is available
(cid:120) Automatic extraction of perfusion data from each lesion type
(cid:120) Automatic reporting of results in the DICOM format
The Predicate Device provides equivalent estimates of the primary clinically relevant features
offered by the Oncology Virtual Expert, concerning
(cid:120) Delineation and volumetric analysis of contrast enhancing region
(cid:120) Delineation and volumetric analysis of edematous tissue
(cid:120) Collection and reporting of volumetric data across time if more studies exist for the same
patient
(cid:120) Computation of perfusion metrics within the different tissue classes
Note that the first three items are all part of both the Subject Device and Predicate Device,
whereas the latter is a unique data collection and reporting feature for the Subject Device.
Differences in Technical Characteristics/Performance with Respect to the Predicate Device
CMN Capillary Function with Oncology Virtual Expert and the Predicate Device (K221738) both
apply to the field of neuro oncology (brain cancer) and are indicated for a subset of primary brain
tumors, specifically brain glioma (WHO Grade II through IV).
The Subject Device is identical to the Predicate Device with the exception of the following features:
(cid:120) The Subject Device does not rely on off-premises resources to perform operations, which
is in contrast to the cloud-based mode of operation required by the Predicate Device
The Subject and Predicate devices are based on the same technological elements of viewing,
processing and analyzing DICOM image data to assist the clinician during diagnostic
procedures. These differences do not impact the intended use or raise new questions with the
safety and performance of the device.
Performance Standards
CMN Capillary Function with Oncology Virtual Expert has been developed in conformance with
the following standards and FDA guidance, as applicable:
(cid:120) ISO 13485:2016, Quality management systems –Requirements for regulatory purposes
(cid:120) ISO 14971:2019, Medical devices –Application of risk management to medical devices
Cercare Medical A/S June 2026(cid:120) IEC 62366-1:2015, Medical devices –Part 1: Application of usability engineering to
medical devices
(cid:120) IEC 62304:2015, Medical device software –Software lifecycle processes
(cid:120) IEC 82304-1:2016, Health Software Part 1: General Requirements for Product Safety
(cid:120) ISO 15223-1:2021, Medical devices —Symbols to be used with information to be
supplied by the manufacturer —Part 1: General requirements
(cid:120) ISO 20417:2021, Medical devices –Information to be supplied by the manufacturer
(cid:120) NEMA PS 3.1-3.20:2024, Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM)
(cid:120) Computer-Assisted Detection Devices Applied to Radiology Images and Radiology
Device Data –Premarket Notification [510(k)] Submissions, September 2022
Performance Data
CMN Capillary Function with Oncology Virtual Expert complies with DICOM (Digital Imaging
and Communications in Medicine), developed by the American College of Radiology and the
National Electrical Manufacturers Association –NEMA PS 3.1-3.20.
Cercare conducted extensive performance validation testing and software verification and
validation testing of the CMN Capillary Function with Oncology Virtual Expert. This
performance validation testing demonstrated that the CMN system provides accurate
representation of key processing parameters under a range of clinically relevant parameters
associated with the intended use of the software. Software performance, validation and
verification testing demonstrated that the CMN system met all design requirements and
specifications.
Comparative performance testing was performed for the Subject Device with respect to the
Predicate Device using a 100-patient subset (425 studies) of the MU-Glioma Post dataset
(University of Missouri). Both devices were independently compared against the same expert
manual segmentation ground truth, established through a STAPLE-based consensus algorithm
with three-tiered expert review including final consensus approval by two board-certified
neuroradiologists. The comparison study population comprised: glioblastoma (n=73),
astrocytoma (n=16), diffuse glioma (n=8), oligodendroglioma (n=2), and pilocytic astrocytoma
(n=1), acquired predominantly on Siemens MRI systems at 1.5T and 3.0T field strengths.
Testing the Predicate and Subject devices demonstrated equivalent estimates of the primary
clinically relevant features offered by Oncology Virtual Expert, concerning
(cid:120) Delineation and volumetric analysis of T1 enhancing region (mean Dice similarity
coefficient: Subject Device 0.706, Predicate Device comparable)
(cid:120) Delineation and volumetric analysis of T2/FLAIR hyperintensity region (mean Dice
similarity coefficient: Subject Device 0.822, Predicate Device comparable)
Cercare Medical A/S June 2026(cid:120) Collection and reporting of volumetric data across time if more studies exist for the same
patient and quantification of imaging-based progression assessment
Subgroup analyses demonstrated consistent performance across scanner manufacturers (Siemens,
GE, Philips), field strengths (1.5T and 3.0T), tumor types, and lesion size categories.
Performance increased with lesion volume, as expected from the properties of the Dice similarity
metric.Device labeling instructs users that longitudinal volumetric comparisons should be
performed using the same scanner model and consistent acquisition parameters to minimize
measurement variability.
Together with software verification and validation, the performance validation demonstrated that
CMN Capillary Function with Oncology Virtual Expert satisfies all design requirements and
device specifications and is substantially equivalent to the Predicate Device.
Substantial Equivalence
In comparison with the Predicate NS-HGlio device (K221738) and Reference CMN Capillary
Function with Virtual Expert device (K241989), CMN Capillary Function with Oncology Virtual
Expert has the same intended use and similar indications, technological characteristics and
principles of operation as described in the comparison table below.
Cercare Medical A/S June 2026Table 5: Substantial Equivalence Comparison Table
Description Subject Device Predicate Device (K221738) Reference Device (K241989) Conclusion
CMN Capillary Function with CMN Capillary Function with
Product Name NS-HGlio
Oncology Virtual Expert Virtual Expert
Manufacturer Cercare Medical A/S Neosoma, Inc. Cercare Medical A/S
Product Code
QIH & LLZ / 21CFR 892.2050 QIH / 21CFR 892.2050 LLZ / 21CFR 892.2050 Same
/ Regulation
Cercare Medical Neurosuite (CMN) and Cercare Medical Neurosuite (CMN)
associated modules is an image processing and associated modules is an image
software package to be used by trained processing software package to be used
professionals, including physicians and NS-HGlio is intended for the semi- by trained professionals, including
medical technicians. automatic labeling, visualization, and physicians and medical technicians.
The CMN software package runs on volumetric quantification of high- The CMN software package runs on
standard off-the-shelf computer or a virtual grade brain glioma (WHO grade 3 standard off-the-shelf computer or a
Same –SD
platform, such as VMware, and can be astrocytoma, WHO grade 4 virtual platform, such as VMware, and
combines
used to perform image viewing, astrocytoma and WHO grade 4 can be used to perform image viewing,
indications of
processing, and analysis of images. Data glioblastoma) from a set of standard processing, and analysis of images.
both the PD
and images are acquired through DICOM MRI images of male or female Data and images are acquired through
(Digital Imaging and Communications in patients 18 years of age or older who DICOM (Digital Imaging and and RD with
Indications Medicine) compliant imaging devices. are known to have pathologically Communications in Medicine) the exception
for Use CMN provides viewing capabilities of proven high-grade glioma. compliant imaging devices. CMN of the Virtual
datasets acquired with MRI and CT. Volumetric measurements may be provides viewing capabilities of Expert portion
The Capillary Function module provides compared to past measurements if datasets acquired with MRI and CT. of the RD; No
available. NS-HGlio is not to be used
analysis capabilities for functional and The Capillary Function module new questions
for primary diagnosis, and is
dynamic imaging datasets acquired with provides analysis capabilities for of safety or
intended to be used by qualified
MRI including a Diffusion Weighted MRI functional and dynamic imaging effectiveness.
clinical personnel as an additional
(DWI) Module and a Dynamic Analysis datasets acquired with MRI including a
source of information and is not
Module (dynamic contrast-enhanced Diffusion Weighted MRI (DWI)
intended to be the sole diagnostic
imaging data for MRI and CT). The Module and a Dynamic Analysis
metric.
Capillary Function module is used for Module (dynamic contrast-enhanced
visualization and analysis of dynamic imaging data for MRI and CT). The
imaging data, showing properties of Capillary Function module is used for
changes in contrast over time. This visualization and analysis of dynamic
Cercare Medical A/S June 2026Description Subject Device Predicate Device (K221738) Reference Device (K241989) Conclusion
functionality includes calculation of imaging data, showing properties of
parameters related to tissue flow changes in contrast over time. This
(perfusion) and tissue blood volume. In functionality includes calculation of
addition, the Capillary Function module's parameters related to tissue flow
DWI technology is used to visualize local (perfusion) and tissue blood volume. In
water diffusion properties from the addition, the Capillary Function
analysis of diffusion-weighted MRI data. module's DWI technology is used to
Oncology Virtual Expert is intended for visualize local water diffusion
semi-automatic labeling, visualization, and properties from the analysis of
volumetric quantification of brain glioma diffusion-weighted MRI data.
(WHO Grade II through IV), including The Virtual Expert module allows the
glioblastoma (WHO Grade IV), calculation of regions of interest and
astrocytoma (WHO Grade II, III, and IV), the visual inspection of time
and oligodendroglioma (WHO Grade III), attenuation curves. For MRI, one
from a set of standard MRI images of adult clinical application is to visualize the
patients who are known to have apparent blood perfusion and diffusion
pathologically proven glioma. Volumetric and to calculate ADC threshold
measurements may be automatically volume, Tmax threshold volume, and
compared to prior measurements when Mismatch Ratio in the brain tissue
available; to minimize measurement affected by acute stroke.
variability, such longitudinal comparisons For CT, one clinical application is to
should be performed using the same visualize the apparent blood perfusion
scanner model and consistent acquisition and to calculate rCBF threshold
parameters.Oncology Virtual Expert is not volume, Tmax threshold volume, and
to be used for primary diagnosis and is Mismatch Ratio in the brain tissue
intended to be used by trained
affected by acute stroke.
professionals as an additional source of
Areas of decreased perfusion appear as
information for decision support.
areas of changed signal intensity:
(cid:120) Lower signal intensity for CBF
and CBV
(cid:120) Higher signal intensity for TTP,
MTT, and Tmax
PACS Functionality
Cercare Medical A/S June 2026Description Subject Device Predicate Device (K221738) Reference Device (K241989) Conclusion
View, process and analyze medical
Basic PACS
images. Communication of results Same Same Same
Functions
through service class user protocols.
Sameas RD;
Standard off-the-shelf PC workstation /
Same Difference with
server
Computer PD raises no
Cloud-based platform only
Platform new questions
Virtual platform such as VMware Same of safety or
effectiveness
DICOM
Yes Yes Yes Same
Compliance
Features
MRI: MRI:
Acquired using four different MRI Acquired using four different
sequences either in 2D or 3D using a MRI sequences either in 2D or
specified protocol: 3D using a specified protocol:
Image Types Same Same
(cid:120) T1 pre-contrast (cid:120) T1 pre-contrast
(cid:120) T1 post-contrast (cid:120) T1 post-contrast
(cid:120) T2 (optional) (cid:120) T2
(cid:120) FLAIR (cid:120) FLAIR
Intended
Brain Brain Same Same
Anatomy
Lesion Review 2D and 3D 2D and 3D Same Same
Semi-automatic and manual Semi-automatic and manual
Segmentation segmentation of brain glioma (WHO segmentation of high-grade N/A Same
Grade II–IV) glioma
Cercare Medical A/S June 2026Description Subject Device Predicate Device (K221738) Reference Device (K241989) Conclusion
Volumetric measurement of the sub- Volumetric measurement of the
Quantification components of brain glioma (WHO sub-components of high-grade N/A Same
Grade II–IV) glioma
(cid:120) Provides volumetric
measurements of high-grade
(cid:120) Provides volumetric measurements
brain glioma and sub-
of brain glioma (WHO Grade II–
components
IV)and sub-components
Volumetric (cid:120) Includes segmented color
(cid:120) Includes segmented color overlays N/A Same
Output overlays of sub-components
of sub-components and reports
and reports
(cid:120) Automatically compares results to
(cid:120) Automatically compares
prior scans when available
results to prior scans when
available
Slight
difference
Summary image characteristics of
raises no new
Other Output other images within the glioma sub- Not available N/A
questions of
components
safety or
effectiveness
Report Yes Yes Yes Same
Cercare Medical A/S June 2026Conclusions
The CMN Capillary Function with Oncology Virtual Expert device performs as intended and
presents no unacceptable risks to the intended patient population. The non-clinical bench data
supports the safety of the device and demonstrates that the CMN Capillary Function with
Oncology Virtual Expert device performs as intended. The CMN Capillary Function with
Oncology Virtual Expert is substantially equivalent in intended use, technological characteristics,
safety, and performance characteristics to the legally marketed Predicate Device (K221738) with
comparable characteristics to the Reference Device (K241989).
Cercare Medical A/S June 2026