Mighty Oak Medical
Mark Wylie
VP Quality and Regulatory
750 W. Hampden Ave.
Suite 120
June 11, 2026
Englewood, Colorado 80110
Re: K260322
Trade/Device Name: Acorn 3D Software (AC-SEG-4009); Acorn 3DP Model (AC-101-XX)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH, LLZ
Dated: May 8, 2026
Received: May 8, 2026
Dear Mark Wylie:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.05
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK260322 - Mark Wylie Page 2
FDA's substantial equivalence determination also included the review and clearance of your Predetermined
Change Control Plan (PCCP). Under section 515C(b)(1) of the Act, a new premarket notification is not
required for a change to a device cleared under section 510(k) of the Act, if such change is consistent with an
established PCCP granted pursuant to section 515C(b)(2) of the Act. Under 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3), a new
premarket notification is required if there is a major change or modification in the intended use of a device,
or if there is a change or modification in a device that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of
the device, e.g., a significant change or modification in design, material, chemical composition, energy
source, or manufacturing process. Accordingly, if deviations from the established PCCP result in a major
change or modification in the intended use of the device, or result in a change or modification in the device
that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, then a new premarket notification
would be required consistent with section 515C(b)(1) of the Act and 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3). Failure to submit
such a premarket submission would constitute adulteration and misbranding under sections 501(f)(1)(B) and
502(o) of the Act, respectively.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFRK260322 - Mark Wylie Page 3
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb
Assistant Director, Ph.D
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureIndications for Use
Please type in the marketing application/submission number, if it is known. This
K260322 ?
textbox will be left blank for original applications/submissions.
Please provide the device trade name(s). ?
Acorn 3D Software (AC-SEG-4009);
Acorn 3DP Model (AC-101-XX)
I
Please provide your Indications for Use below. ?
Acorn 3D Software is a modular image processing software intended for use as an interface for
visualization of medical images, segmentation, anatomical measurements, treatment planning, treatment
simulation, and production of an output file.
The Acorn 3D Segmentation module is intended for use as a software interface and image segmentation
system for the transfer of CT, sCT, or CTA medical images to an output file. Acorn 3D Segmentation is also
intended for measuring and treatment planning. The Acorn 3D Segmentation output can also be used for
the fabrication of physical replicas of the output file using additive manufacturing methods, Acorn 3DP
Models. The physical replica can be used for diagnostic purposes in the field of musculoskeletal and
craniomaxillofacial applications.
The Acorn 3D Alignment and Measurement module contains registration capabilities and measurement
functionality based on anatomical reference geometry. It is intended to allow the user to align anatomical
structures between datasets, perform spinopelvic measurements on 3D models of anatomy, and plan
surgical procedures in pediatric and adult patients.
The Acorn 3D Trajectory Automation module may be used to plan pedicle screw placement in the thoracic
and lumbar regions of the spine in pediatric and adult patients.
The Acorn 3D Correction module may be used to plan and simulate aspects of surgical procedures in
pediatric and adult patients.
Acorn 3D Software and 3DP Models should be used in conjunction with expert clinical judQment.
1Z!
Please select the types of uses (select one or both, as Prescription Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart D)
D ?
applicable). Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)K260322
510(K) SUMMARY
Acorn 3D Software
Submitter:
Mighty Oak Medical
750 W. Hampden Ave., Suite 120
Englewood, CO 80110
(720)398-9703
Contact: Mark A. Wylie, VP of Quality and Regulatory
Date Prepared: 30JAN2026
Device
Trade Name: Acorn 3D Software (AC-SEG-4009); Acorn 3DP Model (AC-101-XX)
Common Name: Image processing system
Device Classification: Class II
Regulation, Name: 21 CFR 892.2050, Medical image management and processing system
Device Product Code: QIH, LLZ
Type of 510(k)
Original Submission: Traditional.
Predicate Device(s):
Acorn 3D Software & 3DP Model
510(k) Product Code Trade Name Manufacturer
Predicate Device
K252103 QIH, LLZ Acorn 3D Software & 3DP Model Mighty Oak Medical
Reference Devices
K251532 QIH, LLZ Acorn 3D Software & 3DP Model Mighty Oak Medical
K141669 LLZ Surgimap Nemaris
K213975 LLZ KEOPS Balance Analyzer 3D S.M.A.I.O.
Introduction
This 510(k) filing seeks to expand the indications for use of the previously cleared Acorn 3D
Software (K252103) to include registration capabilities and measurement functionality based on
anatomical reference geometry. This submission includes the Acorn 3D Correction module as a
new extension of the Acorn 3D Software.
Acorn 3D Software is a modular and multi-functional software suite. The subject device, Acorn
3D Correction module, builds on the functions and capabilities of the Acorn 3D Software
(predicate), specifically image segmentation and the transfer of imaging information from amedical scanner to an output file. Acorn 3D Correction module allows the user to plan and
simulate aspects of surgical procedures.
Description
Acorn 3D Software is an image processing software that allows the user to import, visualize and
segment medical images, check and correct the segmentations, and create digital 3D models.
The models can be used in Acorn 3D Software for measuring, treatment planning and producing
an output file to be used for additive manufacturing (3D printing). Acorn 3D Software is
structured as a modular package.
This includes the following functionality:
 Importing medical images in DICOM format
 Viewing images and DICOM data
 Selecting a region of interest using generic segmentation tools
 Segmenting specific anatomy using dedicated semi-automatic tools or fully automatic
algorithms
 Verifying and editing a region of interest
 Calculating a digital 3D model and editing the model
 Measuring on images and 3D models
 Exporting 3D models to third-party packages
 Image registration
 Planning pedicle screw placement
 Treatment Simulation
The Acorn 3D Segmentation module contains both machine learning based auto segmentation
as well as semi-automatic and manual segmentation tools. The auto-segmentation tool is only
intended to be used for thoracic and lumbar regions of the spine (T1-T12 and L1-L5) and the
pelvis (sacrum). Semi-automatic and manual segmentation tools are intended to be used for all
musculoskeletal anatomy.
Automatic Semi-Automatic Manual
A combination of
Algorithmic with little or no Directly controlled by a
Definition algorithmic and direct
direct human control human
human control
Machine Learning algorithm
Algorithmic based tools that
used to automatically Manual tools requiring user
Tool Type do not incorporate machine
segment individual vertebrae input.
learning.
and the pelvis
Musculoskeletal & Musculoskeletal &
craniomaxillofacial bone: craniomaxillofacial bone:
Spinal anatomy:
 Short  Short
Anatomical  Thoracic (T1-T12)
 Long  Long
Location (s)  Lumbar (L1-L5)
 Flat  Flat
 Sacrum
 Sesamoid  Sesamoid
 Irregular  Irregular
Acorn 3DP Model is an additively manufactured physical replica of the virtual 3D model
generated in Acorn 3D Segmentation. The output file from Acorn 3D Segmentation is used to
additively manufacture the Acorn 3DP Model.
The Acorn 3D Alignment and Measurement module contains registration capabilities and
spinopelvic measurement functionality. It is intended to align spinopelvic anatomical structures
between datasets. The module allows the user to perform spinopelvic measurements on 3D
models of anatomy, and to plan surgical procedures.
The Acorn 3D Trajectories module contains dedicated fully automatic algorithms for planning
pedicle screw trajectories. The algorithms are only intended to be used for the thoracic andlumbar regions of the spine (T1-T12 and L1-L5). The output file from Acorn 3D Trajectory
Automation contains information relevant to pedicle screw placement surgery, including entry
points, end points, and screw sizes of planned screws.
The Acorn 3D Correction module contains tools for pre-operative planning and treatment
simulation.
Indications for Use
Acorn 3D Software is a modular image processing software intended for use as an interface for
visualization of medical images, segmentation, anatomical measurements, treatment planning,
treatment simulation, and production of an output file.
The Acorn 3D Segmentation module is intended for use as a software interface and image
segmentation system for the transfer of CT, sCT, or CTA medical images to an output file. Acorn
3D Segmentation is also intended for measuring and treatment planning. The Acorn 3D
Segmentation output can also be used for the fabrication of physical replicas of the output file
using additive manufacturing methods, Acorn 3DP Models. The physical replica can be used for
diagnostic purposes in the field of musculoskeletal and craniomaxillofacial applications.
The Acorn 3D Alignment and Measurement module contains registration capabilities and
measurement functionality based on anatomical reference geometry. It is intended to allow the
user to align anatomical structures between datasets, perform spinopelvic measurements on 3D
models of anatomy, and plan surgical procedures in pediatric and adult patients.
The Acorn 3D Trajectory Automation module may be used to plan pedicle screw placement in
the thoracic and lumbar regions of the spine in pediatric and adult patients.
The Acorn 3D Correction module may be used to plan and simulate aspects of surgical
procedures in pediatric and adult patients.
Acorn 3D Software and 3DP Models should be used in conjunction with expert clinical judgment.
Materials
The manufactured components of the Acorn 3DP Model are manufactured from a polymer
powder for use in additive manufacturing (HP 3D High Reusability PA12).
Performance Data
Software verification and validation were performed and documentation was provided
following the “Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in
Medical Devices”. This includes verification against defined requirements and validation against
user needs. Both end-user validation and bench testing were performed.
The clinical acceptability of simulated treatment planning generated by the Acorn 3D
Correction module was evaluated through bench testing. Testing demonstrated that the system
reliably produced simulated corrections that met surgeon-defined inputs, including
achievement of target angular metrics within 3°. Intra- and inter-observer variability were also
assessed, with results demonstrating less than 3° of variability as measured by mean absolute
difference and two times the standard deviation (2×SD), representing approximately 95% of
observations.
In conclusion, all performance testing conducted demonstrated device performance and
substantial equivalence to the predicate device.
Technological Characteristics
Acorn 3D Software is a standalone modular software package. This software package
includes, but is not limited to, the following functions:Image Import
 Importing medical images in DICOM format
Image Processing
 Processing of images with common noise-reduction filters
 Editing of spatial arrangement of images
Visualization
 Viewing images and DICOM data
Segmentation
 Selecting a region of interest using generic segmentation tools
 Segmenting specific anatomy using dedicated semi-automatic tools
 Segmenting specific vertebral anatomy using machine-learning-based fully
automatic algorithms
 Verifying and editing a region of interest
Image Export
 Exporting images and 3D models to third-party packages
3D Models
 Calculating a digital 3D model and editing the model
 Smoothing a 3D model
 Importing 3D models
Registration
 Alignment of anatomical structures between datasets
Measurement
 Measuring on images and 3D models
 Standard and generic 3D measurements of spinopelvic anatomy based on user-
defined reference geometry
Treatment Planning
 Importing of third-party STLs to visualize planned interactions with anatomy as
represented in DICOM images
 Pedicle Screw Placement
 Simulation of anatomy in a corrected configuration
Other features
 Using a collection of images and masks as a training dataset for machine-learning
segmentation algorithm
Substantial Equivalence Comparison Table
Device→ Acorn 3D Software Acorn 3D Software
Features↓ (this submission) (K252103)
Trade Name Acorn 3D Software (AC-SEG-4009); Acorn Acorn 3D Software (AC-SEG-4009); Acorn
3DP Model (AC-101-XX) 3DP Model (AC-101-XX)
Common Name Image processing system Image processing system
Premarket notification Not yet submitted K252103
Manufacturer Mighty Oak Medical Mighty Oak Medical
Indications for Use Acorn 3D Software is a modular image Acorn 3D Software is a modular image
Statement processing software intended for use as an processing software intended for use as an
interface for visualization of medical images, interface for visualization of medical images,
segmentation, anatomical measurements, segmentation, treatment planning, and
treatment planning, treatment simulation, production of an output file.
and production of an output file.
The Acorn 3D Segmentation module is The Acorn 3D Segmentation module is
intended for use as a software interface and intended for use as a software interface andDevice→ Acorn 3D Software Acorn 3D Software
Features↓ (this submission) (K252103)
image segmentation system for the transfer image segmentation system for the transfer
of CT, sCT, or CTA medical images to an of CT or CTA medical images to an output
output file. Acorn 3D Segmentation is also file. Acorn 3D Software is also intended for
intended for measuring and treatment measuring and treatment planning. The
planning. The Acorn 3D Segmentation Acorn 3D Segmentation output can also be
output can also be used for the fabrication used for the fabrication of physical replicas
of physical replicas of the output file using of the output file using additive
additive manufacturing methods, Acorn manufacturing methods, Acorn 3DP Models.
3DP Models. The physical replica can be The physical replica can be used for
used for diagnostic purposes in the field of diagnostic purposes in the field of
musculoskeletal and craniomaxillofacial musculoskeletal and craniomaxillofacial
applications. applications.
The Acorn 3D Alignment and Measurement The Acorn 3D Alignment and Measurement
module contains registration capabilities module contains registration capabilities
and measurement functionality based on and measurement functionality based on
anatomical reference geometry. It is anatomical reference geometry. It is
intended to allow the user to align intended to allow the user to align
anatomical structures between datasets, anatomical structures between datasets,
perform spinopelvic measurements on 3D perform spinopelvic measurements on 3D
models of anatomy, and plan surgical models of anatomy, and plan surgical
procedures in pediatric and adult patients. procedures in pediatric and adult patients.
The Acorn 3D Trajectory Automation module The Acorn 3D Trajectory Automation module
may be used to plan pedicle screw may be used to plan pedicle screw
placement in the thoracic and lumbar placement in the thoracic and lumbar
regions of the spine in pediatric and adult regions of the spine in pediatric and adult
patients. patients.
The Acorn 3D Correction module may be
used to plan and simulate aspects of
surgical procedures in pediatric and adult
patients. Acorn 3D Software and 3DP Models should
Acorn 3D Software and 3DP Models should be used in conjunction with expert clinical
be used in conjunction with expert clinical judgment.
judgment.
General intended use Acorn 3D Software is an image processing Acorn 3D Software is an image processing
software that allows the user to import, software that allows the user to import,
visualize and segment medical images, visualize and segment medical images,
check and correct the segmentations, check and correct the segmentations,
conduct surgical planning, and create and conduct surgical planning, and create and
manipulate digital 3D models. manipulate digital 3D models.
Product Classification System, Image processing, Radiological System, Image processing, Radiological
Regulatory Class Class II Class II
Classification 892.2050 892.2050
Product Code QIH and LLZ QIH and LLZ
Device Description Acorn 3D Software is an image processing Acorn 3D Software is an image processing
software that allows the user to import, software that allows the user to import,
visualize and segment medical images, visualize and segment medical images,
check and correct the segmentations, and check and correct the segmentations, and
create digital 3D models. The models can create digital 3D models. The models can
be used in Acorn 3D for measuring, be used in Acorn 3D for measuring,
treatment planning, treatment simulation, treatment planning and producing an
and producing an output file to be used for output file to be used for additive
additive manufacturing (3D printing). Acorn manufacturing (3D printing). Acorn 3D
3D Software is structured as a modular Software is structured as a modular
package. package.
This includes the following functionality: This includes the following functionality:
 Importing medical images in DICOM  Importing medical images in DICOM
format format
 Viewing images and DICOM data  Viewing images and DICOM dataDevice→ Acorn 3D Software Acorn 3D Software
Features↓ (this submission) (K252103)
 Selecting a region of interest using  Selecting a region of interest using
generic segmentation tools generic segmentation tools
 Segmenting specific anatomy using  Segmenting specific anatomy using
dedicated semi-automatic tools or fully dedicated semi-automatic tools or fully
automatic algorithms automatic algorithms
 Verifying and editing a region of  Verifying and editing a region of
interest interest
 Calculating a digital 3D model and  Calculating a digital 3D model and
editing the model editing the model
 Measuring on images and 3D models  Measuring on images and 3D models
 Exporting 3D models to third-party  Exporting 3D models to third-party
packages packages
 Image registration  Image registration
 Planning pedicle screw placement  Planning pedicle screw placement
plan plan
 Treatment Simulation
The Acorn 3D Segmentation module The Acorn 3D Segmentation module
contains both machine learning based auto contains both machine learning based auto
segmentation as well as semi-automatic segmentation as well as semi-automatic
and manual segmentation tools. The auto- and manual segmentation tools. The auto-
segmentation tool is only intended to be segmentation tool is only intended to be
used for thoracic and lumbar regions of the used for thoracic and lumbar regions of the
spine (T1-T12 and L1-L5). Semi-automatic spine (T1-T12 and L1-L5). Semi-automatic
and manual segmentation tools are and manual segmentation tools are
intended to be used for all musculoskeletal intended to be used for all musculoskeletal
anatomy. anatomy.
Acorn 3DP Model is an additively Acorn 3DP Model is an additively
manufactured physical replica of the virtual manufactured physical replica of the virtual
3D model generated in Acorn 3D 3D model generated in Acorn 3D
Segmentation. The output file from Acorn 3D Segmentation. The output file from Acorn 3D
Segmentation is used to additively Segmentation is used to additively
manufacture the Acorn 3DP Model. manufacture the Acorn 3DP Model.
The Acorn 3D Alignment and Measurement The Acorn 3D Alignment and Measurement
module contains registration capabilities module contains registration capabilities
and spinopelvic measurement functionality. and spinopelvic measurement functionality.
It is intended to align spinopelvic It is intended to align spinopelvic
anatomical structures between datasets. anatomical structures between datasets.
The module allows the user to perform The module allows the user to perform
spinopelvic measurements on 3D models of spinopelvic measurements on 3D models of
anatomy, and to plan surgical procedures. anatomy, and to plan surgical procedures.
The Acorn 3D Trajectories module contains The Acorn 3D Trajectories module contains
dedicated fully automatic algorithms for dedicated fully automatic algorithms for
planning pedicle screw trajectories. The planning pedicle screw trajectories. The
algorithms are only intended to be used for algorithms are only intended to be used for
the thoracic and lumbar regions of the the thoracic and lumbar regions of the
spine (T1-T12 and L1-L5). The output file from spine (T1-T12 and L1-L5). The output file from
Acorn 3D Trajectory Automation contains Acorn 3D Trajectory Automation contains
information relevant to pedicle screw information relevant to pedicle screw
placement surgery, including entry points, placement surgery, including entry points,
end points, and screw sizes of planned end points, and screw sizes of planned
screws. screws.
The Acorn 3D Correction module contains
tools for pre-operative planning and
treatment simulation.
Intended User The Acorn 3D Segmentation module can The Acorn 3D Segmentation module can
be used by biomedical engineers or be used by biomedical engineers or
personnel equivalent by training or personnel equivalent by training or
experience. Their results should be used in experience. Their results should be used in
conjunction with expert clinical judgement. conjunction with expert clinical judgement.
The Acorn 3D Alignment & Measurement, The Acorn 3D Alignment & Measurement
Trajectory Automation, and Correction module is intended for use by medicalDevice→ Acorn 3D Software Acorn 3D Software
Features↓ (this submission) (K252103)
modules are intended for use by medical professionals, such as clinicians and
professionals, such as clinicians and surgeons, who are trained in spinal
surgeons, who are trained in spinal procedures and the interpretation of
procedures and the interpretation of diagnostic imaging.
diagnostic imaging. The Acorn 3D Trajectory Automation module
is intended for use by medical professionals,
such as clinicians and surgeons, who are
trained in spinal procedures and the
interpretation of diagnostic imaging.
Technological Acorn 3D Software is a standalone modular Acorn 3D Software is a standalone modular
characteristics software package. This software package software package. This software package
includes, but is not limited to the following includes, but is not limited to the following
functions: functions:
Image Import Image Import
 Importing medical images in DICOM  Importing medical images in DICOM
format format
Image Processing Image Processing
 Processing of images with common  Processing of images with common
noise-reduction filters noise-reduction filters
 Editing of spatial arrangement of  Editing of spatial arrangement of
images images
Visualization Visualization
 Viewing images and DICOM data  Viewing images and DICOM data
Segmentation Segmentation
 Selecting a region of interest using  Selecting a region of interest using
generic segmentation tools generic segmentation tools
 Segmenting specific anatomy using  Segmenting specific anatomy using
dedicated semi-automatic tools dedicated semi-automatic tools
 Segmenting specific vertebral  Segmenting specific vertebral
anatomy using machine-learning- anatomy using machine-learning-
based fully automatic algorithms based fully automatic algorithms
 Verifying and editing a region of  Verifying and editing a region of
interest interest
Image Export Image Export
 Exporting images and 3D models to  Exporting images and 3D models to
third-party packages third-party packages
3D Models 3D Models
 Calculating a digital 3D model and  Calculating a digital 3D model and
editing the model editing the model
 Smoothing a 3D model  Smoothing a 3D model
 Importing 3D models  Importing 3D models
Registration Registration
 Alignment of anatomical structures  Alignment of anatomical structures
between datasets between datasets
Measurement Measurement
 Measuring on images and 3D models  Measuring on images and 3D models
 Standard and generic 3D  Standard and generic 3D
measurements of spinopelvic anatomy measurements of spinopelvic anatomy
based on user-defined reference based on user-defined reference
geometry geometry
Treatment Planning Treatment Planning
 Importing of third-party STLs to visualize  Importing of third-party STLs to visualize
planned interactions with anatomy as planned interactions with anatomy as
represented in DICOM images represented in DICOM images
 Pedicle screw placement  Pedicle screw placement
 Simulation of anatomy in a corrected
configuration
Other features Other featuresDevice→ Acorn 3D Software Acorn 3D Software
Features↓ (this submission) (K252103)
 Using a collection of images and masks  Using a collection of images and masks
as a training dataset for machine- as a training dataset for machine-
learning segmentation algorithm learning segmentation algorithm
Machine-Learning The Acorn 3D Segmentation module The Acorn 3D Segmentation module
Algorithms automates the segmentation of particular automates the segmentation of particular
anatomy (listed in IFU) by implementing a anatomy (listed in IFU) by implementing a
3D U-Net machine learning model. 3D U-Net machine learning model.
Segmentation of the images is completed Segmentation of the images is completed
by generating an input image that is by generating an input image that is
preprocessed (image processing methods) preprocessed (image processing methods)
and then is run through an analysis and then is run through an analysis
(encoder) path and a synthesis (decoder) (encoder) path and a synthesis (decoder)
path. When the image is going through the path. When the image is going through the
analysis path, the model is learning by analysis path, the model is learning by
focusing on new information presented and focusing on new information presented and
by dynamically learning which information by dynamically learning which information
from the image is the most useful. The image from the image is the most useful. The image
then goes through the synthesis path in then goes through the synthesis path in
which the model recovers spatial resolution which the model recovers spatial resolution
and focus on salient features that the and focus on salient features that the
analysis path coded. The parameters of the analysis path coded. The parameters of the
model were obtained through an algorithm model were obtained through an algorithm
development pipeline. development pipeline.
Machine-Learning Acorn 3D Segmentation Acorn 3D Segmentation
Models  Vertebral model (T1-T12, L1-L5)  Vertebral model (T1-T12, L1-L5)
 Sacral model  Sacral model
Bone Model The Acorn 3D Segmentation output can be The Acorn 3D Segmentation output can be
used for the fabrication of physical replicas used for the fabrication of physical replicas
of the output file using additive of the output file using additive
manufacturing methods. The physical manufacturing methods. The physical
replica can be used for diagnostic purposes replica can be used for diagnostic purposes
and/or intraoperative reference of anatomy and/or intraoperative reference of anatomy
in the field of orthopedic and in the field of orthopedic and
musculoskeletal applications. musculoskeletal applications.
Predetermined Change Control Plan (cleared as part of K234009)
The Acorn 3D Software uses an algorithm derived from machine learning (ML) to segment bony
anatomy from CT or CTA images. Mighty Oak Medical will make future algorithm improvements
under a Predetermined Change Control Plan (PCCP; cleared as part of K234009). In that plan, a
protocol is provided to mitigate the risks of the algorithm changes leading to changes in the
device’s technical specifications or negatively affecting performance specifications directly
associated with the indications for use of the device. In accordance with the PCCP, all
algorithm modifications will be trained, tuned, and locked prior to release of the software.
No algorithm improvements have made since the previous submission (K252103) and no
changes to the PCCP were made as part of this submission
Modification Status Review as part of
Vertebra Algorithm: Initial Released K234009
Sacrum Algorithm Released K252103
Hip Bone Algorithm Not released N/A
Vertebra Algorithm: Add T13 & L6 Levels Not released N/A
Vertebra Algorithm: Add Cervical Levels Not released N/AConclusion
The Acorn 3D Software’s Correction module possesses the same intended use and
technological characteristics as the predicate device. Therefore, the Acorn 3D Correction
module is substantially equivalent for its intended use.