February 24, 2026
Exo Imaging
Dornoosh Zonoobi
VP of AI
4201 Burton Dr.
Santa Clara, California 95054
Re: K260217
Trade/Device Name: AI Platform 2.2 (AIP002)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical image management and processing system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: January 23, 2026
Received: January 23, 2026
Dear Dornoosh Zonoobi:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
FDA's substantial equivalence determination also included the review and clearance of your Predetermined
Change Control Plan (PCCP). Under section 515C(b)(1) of the Act, a new premarket notification is not
required for a change to a device cleared under section 510(k) of the Act, if such change is consistent with an
established PCCP granted pursuant to section 515C(b)(2) of the Act. Under 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3), a new
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.07.05
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK260217 - Dornoosh Zonoobi Page 2
premarket notification is required if there is a major change or modification in the intended use of a device,
or if there is a change or modification in a device that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of
the device, e.g., a significant change or modification in design, material, chemical composition, energy
source, or manufacturing process. Accordingly, if deviations from the established PCCP result in a major
change or modification in the intended use of the device, or result in a change or modification in the device
that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, then a new premarket notification
would be required consistent with section 515C(b)(1) of the Act and 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3). Failure to submit
such a premarket submission would constitute adulteration and misbranding under sections 501(f)(1)(B) and
502(o) of the Act, respectively.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) regulation (21 CFR Parts 4 and 820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design
controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action.
Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device
manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR
820.70) and document changes and approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR PartK260217 - Dornoosh Zonoobi Page 3
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
for
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureK260217510(k) Summary - AI Platform 2.2
510(k) Summary K260217
Purpose of the Submission
This Special 510(k) submission is intended to support a limited modification to the legally marketed AI
Platform 2.0 (K240953). The modification extends the existing Quality AI functionality to support
additional abdominal ultrasound views (upper quadrants and pelvic). The modification does not change
the intended use, clinical role, core technology, software architecture, user workflow, or risk profile of the
device.
General Information
510(k) Sponsor Exo Imaging
Address 4201 Burton Drive
Santa Clara, CA 95054
Correspondence Person Dornoosh Zonoobi
Contact Information dornoosh@exo.inc
Cell: +1 780 717 4817
Date Prepared January 23, 2026
Proposed Device
Proprietary Name AI Platform 2.2 (AIP002)
Common Name AI Platform 2.2
Premarket Notification K260217
Classification Name Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.2050
Product Code QIH
Regulatory Class II
Predicate Device
Proprietary Name AI Platform 2.0 (AIP002)
Premarket Notification K240953
Classification Name Automated Radiological Image Processing Software
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.2050
Product Code QIH
Regulatory Class II
Page 1 of 6510(k) Summary - AI Platform 2.2
Device Description
Exo AI Platform 2.2 (AIP 2.2) is a software as a medical device (SaMD) that helps qualified users with
image-based assessment of ultrasound examinations in adult patients. It is designed to simplify
workflow by helping trained healthcare providers evaluate, quantify, and generate reports for ultrasound
images. AIP 2.2 takes as an input in the Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM)
format from ultrasound scanners of a specific range and allows users to detect, measure, and calculate
relevant medical parameters of structures and function of patients with suspected disease. In addition, it
provides frame and clip quality score in real-time for the Left Ventricle from the four-chamber apical and
parasternal long axis views of the heart, Abdominal Upper Quadrant and Pelvic views, and lung scans.
The AI modules are provided as software components to be integrated by another computer
programmer into their legally marketed ultrasound imaging device. Essentially, the Algorithm and API,
which are modules, are medical device accessories.
Key features of the software are:
● Lung AI: An AI-assisted tool for suggesting the presence of lung structures and artifacts on
ultrasound images, namely A-lines and B-lines.
● Cardiac AI: An AI-assisted tool for the quantification of Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction (LVEF),
Myocardium wall thickness (Interventricular Septum (IVSd), Posterior wall (PWd)), and IVC
diameter on cardiac ultrasound images.
● Quality AI: An AI tool designed to assess ultrasound per frame and per clip quality across
Cardiac (A4C and PLAX), Lung, and Abdominal (Upper Quadrants and Pelvic) views.
Warning:
It is important to note that patient management decisions should not be made solely on the AI Platform
2.2 analysis results. Users are fully responsible for ensuring scan quality and making diagnoses. Images
obtained through the use of Quality AI should be interpreted exclusively by certified healthcare
professionals. It is also imperative that a qualified healthcare professional reviews the data, ensuring its
adequacy and appropriateness for the intended diagnosis or management.
Elements Unchanged from the Predicate Device:
The following aspects remain unchanged from the predicate device (AI Platform 2.0, K240953)
● Intended use and patient population
● AI architecture and system design
● Data inputs, outputs, and user workflow
● Labeling, warnings, and clinician responsibility
● Risk classification and mitigation strategies
Page 2 of 6510(k) Summary - AI Platform 2.2
Indications for Use
AI Platform 2.2 is intended for noninvasive processing of ultrasound images to detect, measure,
and calculate relevant medical parameters of structures and function of patients with suspected
disease. In addition, it can provide Quality Score feedback to assist healthcare professionals,
trained and qualified to conduct echocardiography, abdominal, and lung ultrasound scans in the
current standard of care while acquiring ultrasound images. The device is intended to be used on
images of adult patients.
Description of the Modification
The modification extends the existing Quality AI module to accept and assess two additional abdominal
ultrasound views: upper-quadrant and pelvic. No changes were made to the intended use, core
technology, system architecture, data inputs, outputs, or user workflow.
The predicate device (AI Platform 2.0, K240953) includes a Predetermined Change Control Plan (PCCP).
The device continues to contain this PCCP; however, the subject modifications described in this
submission are outside the scope of the PCCP.
Comparison of Technological Characteristics with the Predicate Device
Predicate Device:
Feature/ Subject Device
Exo AI platform 2.0
Function Exo AI Platform 2.2
(K240953)
Indications for Use AI Platform 2.2 is intended for AI Platform 2.0 is intended for
noninvasive processing of ultrasound noninvasive processing of ultrasound
images to detect, measure, and images to detect, measure, and
calculate relevant medical parameters calculate relevant medical parameters
of structures and function of patients of structures and function of patients
with suspected disease. In addition, it with suspected disease. In addition, it
can provide Quality Score feedback to can provide Quality Score feedback to
assist healthcare professionals, trained assist healthcare professionals, trained
and qualified to conduct and qualified to conduct
echocardiography, abdominal, and echocardiography and lung ultrasound
lung ultrasound scans in the current scans in the current standard of care
standard of care while acquiring while acquiring ultrasound images.
ultrasound images. The device is The device is intended to be used on
intended to be used on images of images of adult patients.
adult patients.
Scan type Single and Multi-frame ultrasound Same as subject device. No changes
images were made.
Page 3 of 6510(k) Summary - AI Platform 2.2
Predicate Device:
Feature/ Subject Device
Exo AI platform 2.0
Function Exo AI Platform 2.2
(K240953)
Principle of Operation Ultrasound image processing software Same as subject device. No changes
and Technology implementing artificial intelligence, were made.
including non-adaptive machine
learning algorithms trained with clinical
data intended for non-invasive
analysis of ultrasound data
AI Algorithm Deep Convolutional Neural Networks Same as subject device. No changes
for Segmentation, Landmark Detection were made.
and Classification
Cardiac LVEF Same as subject device. No changes
Measurements were made.
IVC Minimum diameter on inspiration
and Maximum diameter on expiration
Myocardium wall thickness
(Interventricular Septum and Posterior
wall) from Plax view
Non Cardiac AI Absence/presence of A-lines Same as subject device. No changes
modules were made.
B-lines count
Real-time feedback on Yes Same as subject device. No changes
quality were made.
Anatomical Sites for Heart, Lungs, and Abdomen Heart, Lungs
Quality AI
Retrospectively Yes Same as subject device. No changes
recording of were made.
Diagnostic quality clip
AI modules are an Yes Same as subject device. No changes
accessory to were made.
compatible general
purpose diagnostic
ultrasound systems
Page 4 of 6510(k) Summary - AI Platform 2.2
Risk Analysis Summary
A risk analysis was conducted for the AI Platform 2.2 device in accordance with Exo’s existing risk
management process and ISO 14971, to assess the potential impact of adding support for abdominal
views. The primary identified hazard for the Quality AI functionality - misclassification of image quality -
remains unchanged from that identified for the predicate device.
New risk control measures were implemented to address potential risks associated with the added
abdominal views. Following implementation and verification of these controls, residual (post-mitigation)
risk levels remain consistent with those of the predicate device. The modification does not introduce new
hazard types beyond those previously identified, and does not raise new questions of safety or
effectiveness. The overall benefit-risk profile remains consistent with that of the predicate device.
Performance Data
Safety and performance of the AI Platform 2.2 has been evaluated and verified in accordance with
software specifications and applicable performance standards through software verification and
validation testing. Software validation activities were performed in accordance with IEC
62304:2006/AC:2015 - Medical device software – Software life cycle processes, FDA’s “Content of
Premarket Submissions for Device Software Functions’’ Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug
Administration Staff Document issued on June 14, 2023 and FDA Guidance (June 2022) “Technical
performance assessment of quantitative imaging in radiological device premarket submissions”. All
verification and validation activities confirmed that the modification did not impact the core functionality,
performance, or safety of the system.
Validation Performance Testing and Results
Validation of the AI Platform 2.2 followed the same methodology, acceptance criteria, and
expert-reference framework used for the predicate device and was applied to the additional abdominal
views. The performance was successfully evaluated on test data encompassing diverse demographic
variables, including gender, age, and ethnicity from multiple clinical sites in metropolitan cities with
diverse racial patient populations. The test data was entirely separated from the training/tuning datasets
and was not used for any part of the training/tuning. We also established auditability measures, by
assigning a unique identification number to each study and its corresponding images.
The validation of Abdominal Quality AI consists of validating on:
a. Data previously acquired from 184 patients from various ultrasound devices and various
abdominal pathologies, compared to quality rating by experienced sonographers on each frame
and the entire clip. A total of 200 clips (29,371 frames) were used in this test. The overall
agreement between the Quality AI and quality rated by the experienced sonographers was ICC =
0.94 (.94 – .95) for frames and ICC = 0.95 (.94 – .96) for clips.
Page 5 of 6510(k) Summary - AI Platform 2.2
b. Data acquired using the image and clip Quality AI in real time while scanning the pelvic and
upper quadrant views of the abdomen. In total, 186 abdomen scans were acquired by 12 users
with a wide range of ultrasound experience in POC settings, including 8 novice users who
received two hours of training. 96.6% of the clips rated as ACEP quality of 3 or above by expert
readers, also received at least “Minimum criteria met for diagnosis” image quality by Clip Quality
AI. Additionally, 96.1% of scans that were considered as “Minimal criteria met for diagnosis” or
“good” by Quality AI were also deemed diagnostic by experts (ACEP score of 3 or higher).
Conclusions
Exo’s AI Platform 2.2 is substantially equivalent in intended use, design, principles of operation,
technological characteristics, and safety features to the predicate device. The modification implemented
in version 2.2 - an enhancement to the Quality AI module with expanded view support - does not
introduce new questions of safety or effectiveness when the device is used as intended.
The performance of the AI Platform 2.2 product was successfully evaluated on test data encompassing
diverse demographic variables, including gender, age and ethnicity from multiple clinical sites in
metropolitan cities with diverse racial patient populations.
The lung and cardiac functionalities did not change during the development of the AI Platform 2.2
product and remain as per the cleared algorithms in K240953.
Page 6 of 6