June 18, 2026
GuideAI
℅ J. David Giese
Partner
Innolitics, LLC
1101 W. 34th St. #550
Austin, TX 78705
Re: K260729
Trade/Device Name: Vascular Assist Occlusion Triage (VAOT)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2080
Regulation Name: Radiological Computer Aided Triage And Notification Software
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QAS
Dated: May 22, 2026
Received: May 22, 2026
Dear J. David Giese :
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.05
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK260729 - J. David Giese Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.K260729 - J. David Giese Page 3
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging Devices and
Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureK260729
510(k) Summary
1.ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION
Parameter Value
Company Name GuideAI Health, Inc.
Address GuideAI Health, Inc.
45 Temple Street Unit 106
Boston, MA 02114
Phone Number (857)276-8823
Fax Number N/A
Company Representative Raj Shah MD, MBA, CEO
Email rajshah@guideaihealth.com
Primary Correspondent J.David Giese, Partner
Primary Correspondent Email jdgiese@innolitics.com
Date Summary Prepared February 24, 2026
2.SUBJECT DEVICE INFORMATION
Parameter Value
Trade Name Vascular Assist Occlusion Triage (VAOT) v1.0
Common Name Radiological computer aided triage and notification software
Product Code QAS
Regulation Number 21 CFR §892.2080
Class Class II
Panel Radiology
510(k) Summary Page 1 of 9510(k) Summary
3. PREDICATE DEVICE INFORMATION
Parameter Value
Predicate Device Name Briefcase LVO Triage
Predicate Device K Number K220709
Product Code QAS
Regulation Number 21 CFR §892.2080
Class Class II
Panel Radiology
4. DEVICE DESCRIPTION
VAOT is radiological computer-assisted triage and notification software indicated for use in the analysis of
CTA studies of adult patients. The software uses machine-learning techniques to automatically analyze
CTA studies and to alert the PACS/RIS workstation once images with features suggestive of arterial
occlusion are identified.
Using VAOT, a radiologist is able to review studies with features suggestive of arterial occlusion earlier
than in the standard of care workflow.
CTA studies are captured by a CT imaging system and deposited on the PACS. The Gateway instance, a
component of VAOT that runs acting as a PACS listener, receives a copy of the CTA DICOM study,
checks the DICOM meta data to confirm it can be processed, de-identifies it, and securely transmits it to
the VAOT cloud for processing.
The VAOT cloud receives the DICOM image(s) and determines whether a possible occlusion should be
flagged using an image-processing pipeline consisting of several deep neural networks. If one or more
possible occlusions are flagged, then an axial slice from the original study is selected as a “preview image”
for the radiologist, and is sent back to the Gateway instance.
The Gateway instance re-associates the preview image with the patient, embeds it into a DICOM
Secondary Capture, and routes it to the DICOM Destination (e.g., the PACS).
The PACS receives the DICOM Secondary Capture containing the preview image and associates it with
the original study. The PACS can then use the Secondary Capture to notify radiologists of the suspected
occlusion.
510(k) Summary Page 2 of 9510(k) Summary
In summary, theVAOT device is intended to enable a passive notification through the PACS to the
radiologist indicating the existence of a case that may potentially benefit from that radiologist's
prioritization. The device aims to aid in prioritization and triage of radiological medical images only.
5. INTENDED USE / INDICATIONS FOR USE
VAOT is radiological computer‑aided triage and notification software indicated for use in the analysis of
CTA studies of adult patients. The device is intended to assist hospital networks and trained medical
specialists in workflow prioritization by identifying studies with imaging patterns consistent with possible
total arterial occlusion within the aorta, common iliac, external iliac, common femoral, superficial
femoral, and popliteal arteries.
VAOT analyzes CTA images in parallel with the on-going standard-of-care interpretation workflow.
When predefined criteria are met, VAOT generates a notification to alert the user that the case may
warrant prioritization.
Notifications may include compressed preview images provided for informational purposes only and are
not intended for diagnostic use.
The results of VAOT are not intended for primary diagnosis, screening, disease detection, or patient
management decisions. The interpreting clinician remains responsible for viewing the full imaging study
according to standard clinical practice.
VAOT does not detect, localize, characterize, measure, or diagnose vascular disease and does not alter the
original medical images.
6. CONTRAINDICATIONS FOR USE
The VAOT device was not tested on pediatric patients.
7. SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DISCUSSION
The subject device, VascularAssist Occlusion Triage (VAOT), and the predicate device, Aidoc BriefCase
LVO Triage (K220709), share the same intended use as radiological computer-aided triage and notification
software under 21 CFR §892.2080 (product code QAS). Both are Class II, notification-only tools that
analyze CTA studies in adult patients using deep-learning algorithms and generate alerts to assist hospital
networks and trained clinicians with workflow prioritization. Both devices operate entirely in parallel
with the standard-of-care interpretation workflow: neither removes cases from the reading queue, alters
original DICOM images, directs attention to specific locations in the diagnostic images, nor provides
primary diagnostic output. Notifications, which may include compressed preview images for informational
purposes only, are explicitly not intended for diagnostic use. The difference between the two devices lies
510(k) Summary Page 3 of 9510(k) Summary
in the vascular territory evaluated—intracranial vessels for the predicate versus lower-extremity arteries
(aorta through popliteal) for the subject device—which represents a difference in indications for use
within the same clinical purpose of rapid identification and prioritization of suspected acute vascular
occlusion, rather than a new intended use.
The subject and predicate devices share nearly identical technological characteristics. Both are software
packages that:
• Utilize artificial intelligence and deep learning algorithms to analyze DICOM CTA images.
• Receive images from DICOM-compliant imaging devices (CT scanners) or PACS.
• Process images automatically to detect specific findings.
• Notify clinicians of suspected findings to facilitate triage.
• Provide compressed preview images for informational purposes only, which are not intended for
diagnostic use.
• Do not alter the original medical images or remove cases from the standard worklist.
The devices differ in the anatomical region and specific pathology targeted:
• The Predicate Device is indicated for the analysis of Head CTA images to detect Large Vessel
Occlusions (LVO) and Medium Vessel Occlusions (MeVO) associated with stroke.
• The Subject Device is indicated for the analysis of CTA images of the lower extremities to detect
total arterial occlusions in the aorta, common iliac, external iliac, common femoral, superficial
femoral, and popliteal arteries.
The primary difference between the subject and predicate devices is the anatomical location of the
suspected findings (Lower Extremities vs. Head). This difference requires the subject device's AI
algorithms to be trained on a different dataset specific to lower extremity vasculature. However, this
difference does not raise new questions of safety and effectiveness.
Both devices serve the same triage function within their respective clinical contexts. The risks—false
positives (unnecessary prioritization) or false negatives (standard of care review applies)—remain similar.
Neither device replaces the radiologist's interpretation, and both rely on the clinician to view the full
original study for diagnosis. Standalone performance testing, along with verification and validation,
demonstrates that the subject device performs as intended for its specific anatomical region.
A table comparing the key features of the subject and the primary predicate devices is provided below.
Parameter VAOT Briefcase LVO Triage (K220709) Discussion
Subject Device Predicate Device
Product Code QAS QAS Same
510(k) Summary Page 4 of 9510(k) Summary
Parameter VAOT Briefcase LVO Triage (K220709) Discussion
Subject Device Predicate Device
Regulation 21 CFR §892.2080 21 CFR §892.2080 Same
Intended Use Radiological computer aided Radiological computer aided Same
triage and notification triage and notification
Indications for Use VAOT is radiological BriefCase is a radiological Both devices are radiological
computer‑aided triage and computer aided triage and computer-aided triage and
notification software notification software indicated for notification software that
indicated for use in the use in the analysis of head CTA analyze CTA images in
analysis of CTA studies of images in adults or transitional parallel with the standard-
adult patients. The device is adolescents aged 18 and older. of-care interpretation
intended to assist hospital The device is intended to assist workflow and provide
networks and trained medical hospital networks and notification with
specialists in workflow appropriately trained medical compressed preview images
prioritization by identifying specialists in workflow triage by intended for informational
studies with imaging patterns flagging and communication of use only. Each device is
consistent with possible total suspected positive findings of intended to assist
arterial occlusion within the complete Large Vessel Occlusion appropriately trained
aorta, common iliac, external (LVO) - MCA-M1, PCA-P1, clinical users with workflow
iliac, common femoral, ACA-A1, ICA, Basilar; and prioritization by flagging
superficial femoral, and Medium Vessel Occlusions studies with imaging
popliteal arteries. (MeVO) - MCA-M2, MCA- patterns consistent with
proximal M3, PCA-P2, PCA- suspected vascular occlusion
VAOT analyzes CTA images proximal P3, ACA-A2, ACA- in its indicated anatomy.
in parallel with the on-going proximal A3, and Vertebral-V4.
standard-of-care
interpretation workflow. BriefCase uses an artificial
When predefined criteria are intelligence algorithm to analyze
met, VAOT generates a images and highlight cases with
notification to alert the user detected findings on a standalone
that the case may warrant desktop application in parallel to
prioritization. the ongoing standard of care
Notifications may include image interpretation. The user is
compressed preview images presented with notification for
provided for informational cases with suspected findings.
purposes only and are not Notifications include compressed
intended for diagnostic use. preview images that are meant for
informational purposes only and
The results of VAOT are not not intended for diagnostic use
intended for primary beyond notification. The device
diagnosis, screening, disease does not alter the original medical
detect, or patient management image and is not intended to be
decisions. The interpreting used as a diagnostic device.
510(k) Summary Page 5 of 9510(k) Summary
Parameter VAOT Briefcase LVO Triage (K220709) Discussion
Subject Device Predicate Device
clinician remains responsible
for viewing the full imaging The results of BriefCase are
study according to standard intended to be used in
clinical practice. conjunction with other patient
information and based on their
VAOT does not detect, professional judgment, to assist
localize, characterize, with triage/prioritization of
measure, or diagnose vascular medical images. Notified
disease and does not alter the clinicians are responsible for
original medical images. viewing full images per the
standard of care.
User Population Hospital networks and Hospital networks and Same
appropriately trained medical appropriately trained medical
specialists specialists
Anatomical Site Lower Extremities Head The devices are indicated for
different anatomical sites.
Disease/Condition Suspected Peripheral Arterial Suspected Stroke/LVO Both devices attempt to
Occlusion identify occlusions to the
large vessels in their
indicated anatomical sites.
Input Data CTA CTA Same
Data Acquisition Acquires medical image data Acquires medical image data from Same
from DICOM-compliant DICOM-compliant imaging
imaging devices and devices and modalities
modalities
Preview Images Preview images provided for Preview images provided for Same
informational purposes only informational purposes only and
and not intended for not intended for diagnostic use
diagnostic use beyond beyond notification.
notification.
Algorithm Artificial intelligence Artificial intelligence algorithm Same
algorithm with database of with database of images
images
Patient Population Adult Adult Same
510(k) Summary Page 6 of 9510(k) Summary
Parameter VAOT Briefcase LVO Triage (K220709) Discussion
Subject Device Predicate Device
Images format DICOM DICOM Same
Notification only, Yes Yes Same
parallel workflow
tool
Notification Using DICOM Secondary Using a Standalone Desktop Both devices provide
delivery Captures Application notifications to support
workflow prioritization;
however, the mechanisms
differ (DICOM secondary
captures versus a standalone
desktop application).
Despite different delivery
approaches, both present
compressed preview images
for informational purposes
to facilitate timely user
awareness.
Interference with No. No cases are removed No. No cases are removed from Same
standard workflow from Worklist or Worklist or deprioritized
deprioritized.
8. PERFORMANCE TESTING
8.1. Pivotal Study Summary
GuideAI conducted a retrospective, blinded, multicenter study with the VAOT software to evaluate the
software’s performance in identifying peripheral arterial occlusions in 317 cases from US-based clinical
sites. The study compared the software’s performance to the ground truth, as determined by 3 expert US
board certified Radiologists, using majority voting. The cases collected for the pivotal dataset were all
distinct from the cases used to train the algorithm.
The study included 317 cases (165 positive for occlusion, 152 negative). The dataset included cases from
multiple scanner manufacturers and covered a broad range of patient ages. The gender distribution was
180 Male and 137 Female. The study sample was enriched for cases with aortic occlusions.
510(k) Summary Page 7 of 9510(k) Summary
8.2. Primary Endpoint
VAOT met the primary endpoints of sensitivity and specificity with an 80% performance goal.
Sensitivity was 0.915 (95% CI: 0.862, 0.953) and specificity was 0.901 (95% CI: 0.842, 0.944).
8.3. Secondary Endpoint
VAOT met the secondary endpoint of time-to-notification less than 5 minutes.
The time-to-notification includes the time to get the DICOM exam, de-identify it, upload it to the cloud,
analyze and send a notification on a positive suspect case back to the desktop application.
8.4. Clinical Subgroups and Confounders
Frequency Distribution of Manufacturer:
Manufacturer N %
GE MEDICAL SYSTEMS 192 60.6%
SIEMENS 73 23.0%
Philips 14 4.4%
Canon/Toshiba 37 11.7%
Other 1 0.3%
Total 317 100.0%
Clinical Subgroups And Confounders:
• Pathologies present in negative cases: Non-occlusive arterial disease (mimics); Post-operative and
device confounders; Out-of-scope vessels/locations; Other vascular pathologies;
Acquisition/technical quality issues.
• Vessel Occlusions: Aorta, Common Iliac, External Iliac, Common Femoral, Superficial Femoral,
and Popliteal. The set was enriched with 21 positive vessel aortic occlusions cases.
510(k) Summary Page 8 of 9510(k) Summary
8.5. Software Validation
Software verification and validation testing were conducted, and documentation was provided as
recommended by 2023 FDA Guidance “Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software
Functions”.
The software verification and validation testing verified that the design requirements were successfully
met. The Intended use and user needs were successfully validated.
8.6. Cybersecurity
GuideAI conducted a cybersecurity risk assessment and testing in accordance 2025 FDA Guidance
“Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality System Considerations and Content of Premarket
Submissions”.
9. CONCLUSIONS
VAOT shares the same intended use, technological characteristics, and principles of operation as the
predicate device. The differences in anatomical indication are addressed through standalone performance
testing. We believe the introduction of VAOT into the U.S. market should not raise any safety or efficacy
concerns. The device demonstrates substantial equivalence to the predicate device.
510(k) Summary Page 9 of 9