June 15, 2026
Anumana, Inc.
℅ Michael Billig
Regulatory Consultant for Anumana, Inc., Executive Advisor, Veranex, Inc.
Veranex, Inc.
5420 Wade Park Blvd., Suite 204
Raleigh, North Carolina 27607
Re: K260300
Trade/Device Name: WatchMate Software
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH
Dated: May 8, 2026
Received: May 11, 2026
Dear Michael Billig:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.05
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK260300 - Michael Billig Page 2
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.K260300 - Michael Billig Page 3
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
for
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director, Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological
Imaging and Radiation Therapy Devices
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureANUMANA, INC WATCHMATE SOFTWARE
TRADITIONAL 510(K) PREMARKET NOTIFICATION
510(k) Summary
510(k) Notification K260300
GENERAL INFORMATION [807.92(a)(1)]
Applicant: Anumana, Inc.
One Main Street, Suite 400
East Arcade 4th Floor
Cambridge, MA 02142 USA
Phone: +1 267 945 3387
Contact Persons: Michael J. Billig
Regulatory Consultant for Anumana, Inc.
Executive Advisor, Veranex, Inc.
5420 Wade Park Blvd., Suite 204
Raleigh, NC 27607, U.S.A.
Phone: 650-245-3439
Email: michael.billig@veranex.com
Animesh Agarwal
Vice President of Product Management
Anumana, Inc.
One Main Street, Suite 400
East Arcade 4th Floor
Cambridge, MA 02142 USA
Phone: 267-945-3387
Email: animesh.agarwal@anumana.ai
Date Prepared: May 29, 2026
DEVICE INFORMATION [807.92(A)(2)]
Classification: 21 CFR 892.2050 – Medical image management and processing system;
Class II
Product Code: Primary Product Code: QIH
Trade Name: WatchMate Software
Generic/Common Name: WatchMate TEE
PREDICATE DEVICE(S) [807.92(A)(3)]
• Predicate Device: Circle Cardiovascular Imaging, Inc. - TruPlan Computed Tomography (CT)
Imaging Software (K222593)
• Reference Device 1: Philips Ultrasound, Inc. - 3D Auto LAA (K201352)
• Reference Device 2: Nesa Medtech Private Limited - Fibroid Mapping Reviewer Application
(FMRA) (K222683)
Page 1 of 15ANUMANA, INC WATCHMATE SOFTWARE
TRADITIONAL 510(K) PREMARKET NOTIFICATION
510(k) Summary
DEVICE DESCRIPTION [807.92(A)(4)]
The WatchMate Software (Version 1.2.0) is a standalone software application intended for use by
healthcare professionals during left atrial appendage closure (LAAC) procedures. It processes
transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) images to assist in pre-procedural planning and device
sizing. The software provides advanced image processing capabilities, including:
• 3D reconstruction of the left atrial appendage (LAA) from 2D TEE images.
• Visualization tools for reviewing 2D and 3D anatomical structures.
• Automated quantitative measurements of LAA dimensions and landing zone parameters.
WatchMate operates on a dedicated Hardware Platform and interfaces with a Mobile Platform for
user interaction. It receives TEE image data from an ultrasound console via DICOM protocol and
outputs 3D models and measurements to support clinical decision-making. The software does not
directly interact with the patient and is intended for use in cardiac catheterization or
electrophysiology labs by trained clinicians. It functions as an adjunctive tool, providing anatomical
insights without replacing clinical judgment.
AI/ML Algorithm Development and Training:
WatchMate Software employs a multi-stage deep learning pipeline comprising: (1) video validation
models that classify 2D B-Mode TEE input and confirm the presence of the LAA; (2) character
recognition models that extract transducer angle and imaging depth metadata from each frame; (3)
an anatomy segmentation model that identifies the LAA, Left Atrium, Left Pulmonary Vein, cardiac
vessels, and Left Ventricle in each TEE frame; (4) 3D mesh generation models that construct a
densified 3D point cloud from segmentation contours and convert it into a smooth surface mesh of
the LAA and surrounding structures; and (5) a landing zone estimation algorithm that provides a
tentative landing zone plane with quantitative measurements.
All models were developed using a de-identified clinical dataset sourced from a large United States
health system spanning over 35 years of echocardiographic and cardiac CT imaging data. Training
and verification data were split at the patient level to prevent data leakage. TEE-based models were
trained on annotated TEE video frames; 3D reconstruction models were trained on 3D anatomical
references derived from cardiac CT scans. The table below summarizes the datasets used for
internal model development and verification.
Model Training Dataset Verification Dataset
Anatomy Segmentation 36,541 annotated TEE frames 7,385 annotated TEE frames
3D Point Cloud Generation 61,284 cardiac CT scans 3,270 cardiac CT scans
Page 2 of 15ANUMANA, INC WATCHMATE SOFTWARE
TRADITIONAL 510(K) PREMARKET NOTIFICATION
510(k) Summary
The verification datasets were used for internal model tuning and selection and are distinct from
the independent external clinical validation study (NCT07126600) described in the Clinical Testing
Summary.
INDICATIONS FOR USE [807.92(A)(5)]
WatchMate Software enables visualization and measurement of structures of the heart and vessels
for pre-procedural planning and sizing for the left atrial appendage closure (LAAC) procedure.
To facilitate the above, WatchMate Software provides general functionality such as:
• 3D reconstruction of the left atrial appendage (LAA) from trans-esophageal
echocardiogram images of the left atrial appendage
• Visualization and image reconstruction, including 2D review and 3D rendering
• Measurement and annotation tools
The results are intended to be used by qualified clinicians in conjunction with the patient's clinical
history, symptoms, and other preprocedural evaluations, as well as the clinician's professional
judgment.
WatchMate Software’s intended patient population is comprised of adult patients.
COMPARISON OF TECHNOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS WITH THE PREDICATE DEVICES [807.92(A)(6)]
Table 1 summarizes a comparative analysis between WatchMate and the predicate and reference
Devices. The information presented demonstrates that the proposed device is substantially
equivalent to the predicate device.
Page 3 of 15ANUMANA, INC WATCHMATE SOFTWARE
TRADITIONAL 510(K) PREMARKET NOTIFICATION
510(k) Summary
Table 1: Summary of Technological Characteristics
Predicate Device: Rationale for
Proposed Device TruPlan CT Imaging Reference Device 1: Reference Device 2: Substantial
Feature WatchMate Software Software (K222593) 3D Auto LAA (K201352) FMRA (K222683) Equivalence
21 CFR 892.2050 – 21 CFR 892.2050 – 21 CFR 892.2050 –
Regulation Number, 21 CFR 892.2050 – Medical Medical image Medical image Medical image
Regulation Name, image management and management and management and management and Same.
Regulatory Class processing system; Class II processing system; processing system; processing system;
Class II Class II Class II
Primary Product Code:
LLZ; Common Name -
QIH, Secondary Product LLZ; Medical Image
Product Code, Device Picture Archiving and Same as predicate
Primary Product Code: QIH Code: LLZ; Medical Management and
Classification Name Communications device.
image management and Processing System
System (PACS)
processing system
WatchMate Software TruPlan enables
enables visualization and visualization and
measurement of measurement of
structures of the heart and structures of the heart
Fibroid Mapping
vessels for pre-procedural and vessels for:
Reviewer Application
planning and sizing for the • Pre-procedural The proposed and
(FMRA) is intended to be
left atrial appendage planning and sizing predicate devices have
The 3D Auto LAA is a used by physicians in the
closure (LAAC) procedure. for the left atrial the same general
software application clinic or hospital to
appendage closure fundamental purpose:
designed to view and generate a
To facilitate the above, (LAAC) procedure adjunctive, clinician
quantify 3D image data 3-D model from
WatchMate Software • Post-procedural directed Left Atrial
acquired by Philips ultrasound images of the
provides general evaluation for the Appendage Closure
Indications for Use Ultrasound uterus of women with
functionality such as: LAAC procedure (LAAC) planning;
Systems for use in uterine fibroids. The
• 3D reconstruction of differences are
measuring the area, model represents
the left atrial To facilitate the above, modality/scope which
circumference, and clinically relevant
appendage (LAA) from TruPlan provides general do not raise
diameter of a Left Atrial dimensions, including
trans-esophageal functionality such as: new/different questions
Appendage (LAA) orifice. the location and
echocardiogram • Segmentation of of safety and
dimensions of the fibroid
images of the left cardiovascular effectiveness.
(maximum length, width
atrial appendage structures
and depth).
• Visualization and • Visualization and
image reconstruction, image
including 2D review reconstruction
and 3D rendering techniques: 2D
Page 4 of 15ANUMANA, INC WATCHMATE SOFTWARE
TRADITIONAL 510(K) PREMARKET NOTIFICATION
510(k) Summary
Table 1: Summary of Technological Characteristics (cont.)
Predicate Device: Rationale for
Proposed Device TruPlan CT Imaging Reference Device 1: Reference Device 2: Substantial
Feature WatchMate Software Software (K222593) 3D Auto LAA (K201352) FMRA (K222683) Equivalence
• Measurement and review, Volume
annotation tools Rendering, MPR
• Simulation of TEE
The results are intended to views, ICE views,
be used by qualified and fluoroscopic
clinicians in conjunction rendering
with the patient's clinical • Measurement and
history, symptoms, and annotation tools
other preprocedural • Reporting tools
evaluations, as well as the
clinician's professional TruPlan’s intended
judgment. patient population is
comprised of adult
WatchMate Software’s patients.
intended patient
population is comprised of
adult patients.
The Philips EPIQ and
Affiniti Diagnostic
Women with uterine Same as predicate
Intended Use Population Adults undergoing LAAC Adults undergoing LAAC Ultrasound Systems are
fibroids device.
for cardiac (adult,
pediatric, and fetal)
The Philips EPIQ and
Control room or Affiniti Diagnostic
designated non-sterile Ultrasound Systems are All are professional
Intended Use area in hospital cardiac Clinical / Hospital intended for use in a clinical environments;
Clinic/Hospital
Environment catheterization lab / environment variety of clinical differences do not
cardiac electrophysiology environments, including change risk profile.
lab hospitals, clinics, and
point-of-care settings
Qualified HCPs Qualified medical
All require trained users;
(interventional professionals
Trained healthcare clinician oversight
Intended User cardiologists, (cardiologists, Physicians
professional mitigates automation
electrophysiologists, electrophysiologists,
risks.
sonographers) radiologists)
Page 5 of 15ANUMANA, INC WATCHMATE SOFTWARE
TRADITIONAL 510(K) PREMARKET NOTIFICATION
510(k) Summary
Table 1: Summary of Technological Characteristics (cont.)
Predicate Device: Rationale for
Proposed Device TruPlan CT Imaging Reference Device 1: Reference Device 2: Substantial
Feature WatchMate Software Software (K222593) 3D Auto LAA (K201352) FMRA (K222683) Equivalence
Prescription/Over the
Rx-only Rx-only Rx-only Rx-only Same
Counter
Hardware Platform (Linux +
NVIDIA GPU), Mobile
All are software-centric;
Platform (iPad), Optional cvi42 client/server, Web
On-cart Philips Windows software; platform differences are
display; Helper Utilities viewer, Node42 (server-
System Components EPIQ/Affiniti with 3D imports ultrasound via architectural and do not
(DICOM, Network, Auth, side ML), PACS
Auto LAA app USB affect
LUKS, Export/Archival, ROI, connectivity
safety/effectiveness.
Device Placement, Device
Simulation)
• Import CT
• Acquire TEE sweep
• segmentation/visua • Acquire 3D TEE • Import Ultrasound
• select videos Comparable stepwise
lization • semi-auto LAA (US) frames
Operational Workflow / • 3D reconstruction adjunct workflows:
• simulated views orifice border • Annotate
Clinical Workflow • landing zone review modality choice changes
• measurement/repor • measure orifice • 3D uterus model
• optional device acquisition only.
ting parameters • measure fibroids
simulation
• follow-up module
• TEE recognition (ML) CT-based
• 3D reconstruction segmentation/visualizati
All rely on user oversight;
(ML) on; ML used for Semi-automated LAA Post-processing of 2D
Operating Principal / automation levels differ
• landing-zone segmentation and orifice border detection US to generate 3D model
Principle of Operation but do not introduce new
estimation landing zone with user edits with manual annotations
risks.
(algorithmic); clinician initialization; clinician
review required review
Up to three TEE DICOM
videos with ECG gating,
transducer angle, spatial Ultrasound; supports Different modalities feed
CT data in DICOM format 3D TEE from Philips
Input data type resolution. Validated for non-DICOM video comparable planning
(vendor-independent) systems
compatibility with GE and (.mov/.avi/.mp4) functions.
Philips TEE ultrasound
systems only.
Semi-automatic
AI-estimated plane; user- Semi-automated orifice All require clinician
initialization of the
Landing Zone Detection adjustable; live border (LAA) with Not Applicable control; no new safety
landing zone using
measurement updates editable contour concerns.
Machine Learning
Page 6 of 15ANUMANA, INC WATCHMATE SOFTWARE
TRADITIONAL 510(K) PREMARKET NOTIFICATION
510(k) Summary
Table 1: Summary of Technological Characteristics (cont.)
Predicate Device: Rationale for
Proposed Device TruPlan CT Imaging Reference Device 1: Reference Device 2: Substantial
Feature WatchMate Software Software (K222593) 3D Auto LAA (K201352) FMRA (K222683) Equivalence
techniques; manual
confirmation of the
landing zone
Semi-automatic
segmentation for 3D
AI recognition; 3D
visualization of the left
LAA/LA/LPV/ mitral Focused on LAA orifice Uterus/fibroid Scope difference only;
Left Heart Segmentation heart using Machine
annulus/vessels; echo & only segmentation no safety impact.
Learning techniques;
structure overlays
manual editing of 3D
views possible
• Study/series
previewing
TEE Video Viewer (list/grid On-cart workflow; Not Local/USB import; Not Differences are workflow
Study list image • Exporting
and play/pause), qualified applicable for generic Applicable for full study related; not safety
functionality • Deleting
videos, QC feedback study list list features relevant.
• Anonymizing
• Search
• Fluoroscopy (grayscale
3D rendering), to
visualize relationship
among LAAC procedure
Echo overlay (TEE pane
relevant anatomical
overlay on top of the 3D
Image assessment – structures Different visualization
Model) and Structure -- Not Applicable
simulated views • TEE, to provide similar aids; no new risks.
Overlay (ECG-Gated TEE
views to intraprocedural
frames)
TEE
• ICE, to provide similar
views to intraprocedural
ICE
Two-pane 2D TEE plus 3D,
Image assessment – MPR alignment; editable Feature breadth varies;
clip plane, 2D/3D/MPR, 4D (cine), 2D review plus 3D uterus
other visualization orifice border all adequate for
rotate/pan/zoom, structure MPR, MIP, Annotation rendering
functionality visualization planning.
overlays
Image assessment – Length/width/depth All provide clinically
Max/Min diameters, Distance (length, Area, circumference,
measurement (fibroids); location relevant measurements;
area/perimeter-based diameter, perimeter)/ max/min diameters
functionality mapping modality specific.
Page 7 of 15ANUMANA, INC WATCHMATE SOFTWARE
TRADITIONAL 510(K) PREMARKET NOTIFICATION
510(k) Summary
Table 1: Summary of Technological Characteristics (cont.)
Predicate Device: Rationale for
Proposed Device TruPlan CT Imaging Reference Device 1: Reference Device 2: Substantial
Feature WatchMate Software Software (K222593) 3D Auto LAA (K201352) FMRA (K222683) Equivalence
diameters, depth, Area / Angle/ Signal
compression ratios intensity / Coordinates
Patient/study
information;
Export & Archival Service Screenshots; Outputs for clinician Outputs for clinician Differences are
Report functionality (USB/DICOM); encrypted Measurements; Free review; Not Applicable review; Not Applicable presentational; not
logs text; Device sizing table for formal reporting for formal reporting safety critical.
(for reference only) for
LAA procedure
Ubuntu 24.04 LTS + iPad OS/platform differences
Windows/macOS
UI; optional HDMI are architectural; do not
Operating system clients; cvi42 server; On-cart EPIQ/Affiniti Windows workstation
connection to cath lab affect clinical
web components
monitor performance.
All support clinical data
Yes (DICOM service, Mixed: supports non-
Yes (SCP/Q/R/TLS; PACS Yes, within Philips workflows: format
DICOM compliant AE/whitelist; mTLS; local- DICOM video; US import
integration) ecosystem differences are
only network) via USB
expected.
Yes: TEE recognition, 3D Yes: left heart No (manual annotations; Automation levels vary;
Use of AI/Machine Preliminary border
reconstruction; landing segmentation; landing algorithmic post- all retain clinician
Learning generated by algorithm
zone estimation zone initialization processing) oversight.
Local private network; USB import; Not Interoperability
On-cart workflow; Not
Interoperability / DICOM from TEE console PACS Q/R, DICOM SCP, Applicable for differences reflect
Applicable beyond
Connectivity via Ethernet/Wi-Fi; iPad via TLS; AD/LDAP; web ports networked deployment model; not
Philips ecosystem
Wi-Fi; HDMI display interoperability safety critical.
Linux workstation (GPU
Windows/macOS
Software / Hardware ≥24 GB RAM), iPad mobile Philips ultrasound cart Platform differences are
clients; Windows server; Windows PC
Platform client, optional HDMI (EPIQ/Affiniti) architectural.
Node42 for ML
display
Both proposed and
Updates via secure links; TLS for web/PACS;
predicate implement
Automatic Updates & 2FA; Tripwire FIM; cert admin/user roles;
-- -- robust cybersecurity;
Cybersecurity renewal; LUKS FDE; mTLS; antivirus guidance;
differences are
local-only network AD/LDAP; HTTPS/TLS
implementation specific.
Nonclinical performance Performance testing for Non-clinical testing for FMRA underwent Both the proposed
Non-Clinical Testing
testing for WatchMate was TruPlan was conducted the Philips 3D Auto LAA comprehensive WatchMate Software
‑
Page 8 of 15ANUMANA, INC WATCHMATE SOFTWARE
TRADITIONAL 510(K) PREMARKET NOTIFICATION
510(k) Summary
Table 1: Summary of Technological Characteristics (cont.)
Predicate Device: Rationale for
Proposed Device TruPlan CT Imaging Reference Device 1: Reference Device 2: Substantial
Feature WatchMate Software Software (K222593) 3D Auto LAA (K201352) FMRA (K222683) Equivalence
conducted in compliance in compliance with ISO cardiac quantification verification and and the predicate
with ISO 13485, IEC 62304 13485:2016, IEC application was validation, including TruPlan device
software lifecycle and ISO 62304:2015, ISO performed following comparison of its output underwent
14971 risk management 14971:2019, and NEMA Philips’ internal parameters against MRI comprehensive non-
frameworks and includes a 3.1-3.20 (2016) DICOM processes, including values using phantom clinical verification and
documented cybersecurity standards to verify design control activities models simulating validation activities
risk assessment. design requirements and such as requirements uterus and fibroids, with appropriate to their
Nonclinical performance ensure device review, risk analysis, acceptance criteria of ±2 respective designs, user
testing demonstrated that functionality. Testing product specifications, mm for location and needs, and intended
Watc‑hMate Software included verification, and software verification dimensions. Testing was uses. For WatchMate,
meets all design input validation, and machine and validation. performed by three software verification,
requirements and learning algorithm Verification and certified medical integration testing, and
performs reliably as evaluation for left heart validation testing, along professionals using cybersecurity
intended. Testing included segmentation and with a performance images from three evaluations
software unit, system, and landing zone detection validation study, different ultrasound demonstrated that the
integration verification; using anonymized CT demonstrated that the machines. Development system performs reliably
product cybersecurity images from multiple new automated LAA adhered to ISO and meets all specified
evaluation; and labeling vendors and global sites. application (part of 14971:2019 and IEC requirements. Similarly,
verification, all conducted Results met predefined EPIQ/Affiniti System 62304:2015 standards. the predicate TruPlan
under predefined acceptance criteria, software version 7.0) FMRA met all device completed non-
protocols, acceptance achieving 99.81% bone was substantially acceptance criteria, clinical testing, including
criteria, and approved removal and 97.37% equivalent to the confirming compliance segmentation and
procedures. Unit and correct LAA visualization currently marketed with performance, algorithm performance
system testing confirmed for segmentation, and manual LAA tracing and functional, and safety assessments, that
correct functionality of 97–99% accuracy for measurement options, requirements, and confirmed acceptable
individual components and landing zone detection ensuring safe and demonstrated functionality and
the fully integrated with minimal mean effective performance. substantial equivalence accuracy using CT image
software, while distance errors, to the predicate device datasets. The non-
cybersecurity testing confirming robust without raising new clinical testing for both
verified resilience in both performance across safety or effectiveness devices confirms that
controlled and mock diverse datasets. concerns. each performs as
deployment environments. intended within its
Labeling verification defined operating
ensured accuracy and parameters and do not
completeness of all introduce any new risks.
Page 9 of 15ANUMANA, INC WATCHMATE SOFTWARE
TRADITIONAL 510(K) PREMARKET NOTIFICATION
510(k) Summary
Table 1: Summary of Technological Characteristics (cont.)
Predicate Device: Rationale for
Proposed Device TruPlan CT Imaging Reference Device 1: Reference Device 2: Substantial
Feature WatchMate Software Software (K222593) 3D Auto LAA (K201352) FMRA (K222683) Equivalence
userfacing
documentation. All tests
pass‑ed successfully, with
all acceptance criteria
met.
No clinical studies were Although the predicate
necessary to support device did not conduct a
substantial equivalence. formal prospective
clinical study, both the
No clinical testing was predicate and the
necessary, however a proposed device were
prospective multicenter evaluated using
data collection study methodologies that
(NCT07126600) was compare software
elected to be performed. generated
All imaging was collected measurements to
as part of routine standard- human reviewer
of-care clinical practice, assessments with CT
and no Did not require clinical serving as the gold
No clinical studies were
investigational procedures data in order to make a standard. The
Clinical Testing necessary to support --
were performed. This determination for predicate’s CT based
substantial equivalence
study evaluated substantial equivalence performance
WatchMate’s performance assessments were
for LAAC planning by classified under its non-
comparing its LAA clinical testing, whereas
measurements from the proposed device
routine intraprocedural 2D conducted a prospective
TEE with unanimous- multicenter data
consensus collection study.
contrastenhanced CT as Despite different study
the reference standard designs, each device
establish‑ed by three demonstrated that its
independent expert measurement
cardiac CT readers. 100 performance is
subjects were enrolled consistent with that of
Page 10 of 15ANUMANA, INC WATCHMATE SOFTWARE
TRADITIONAL 510(K) PREMARKET NOTIFICATION
510(k) Summary
Table 1: Summary of Technological Characteristics (cont.)
Predicate Device: Rationale for
Proposed Device TruPlan CT Imaging Reference Device 1: Reference Device 2: Substantial
Feature WatchMate Software Software (K222593) 3D Auto LAA (K201352) FMRA (K222683) Equivalence
across six U.S. sites, with qualified human
72 included in the reviewers and aligned
perprotocol population with CT reference
after exclusions for measurements,
una‑nalyzable TEE or 2D–3D WatchMate Software
inconsistency flags. The showed non-inferiority to
primary endpoint physician interpreted 2D
demonstrated TEE for key LAA
noninferiority of measurements relative
WatchMate to the average to CT. In both cases,
of th‑ree blinded performance testing
physicianinterpreted 2D confirmed that the
TEE for landingzone software outputs agree
maximum‑ diameter, with with human reviewer
mean absolute‑ deviation measurements without
vs. consensus CT of 3.1 ± introducing new risks or
3.4 mm for WatchMate and affecting safety or
5.2 ± 3.4 mm for 2D TEE, effectiveness.
and a betweenmethod
difference of –2.1 mm
(upper 97.5% C‑I -0.9 mm; P
< 0.001), meeting the
prespecified 1mm non-
inferiority margin and
additionally me‑eting
superiority. Sensitivity
analyses against each
individual CT reader and
against each individual TEE
reader as alternative
reference standards
consistently demonstrated
non-inferiority. Secondary
analyses (e.g.,
landingzone depth and
‑
Page 11 of 15ANUMANA, INC WATCHMATE SOFTWARE
TRADITIONAL 510(K) PREMARKET NOTIFICATION
510(k) Summary
Table 1: Summary of Technological Characteristics (cont.)
Predicate Device: Rationale for
Proposed Device TruPlan CT Imaging Reference Device 1: Reference Device 2: Substantial
Feature WatchMate Software Software (K222593) 3D Auto LAA (K201352) FMRA (K222683) Equivalence
minimum diameter)
showed comparable
performance to TEE, and
Bland–Altman analysis
indicated minimal
systematic bias for
WatchMate versus
consistent TEE
underestimation. Overall,
the study demonstrated
that WatchMate is
noninferior to
physicianinterpreted 2D
TEE ‑for LAA landingzone
diameter m‑ easurement
relative to multi-rea‑der
consensus CT, supporting
its clinical use in LAAC
pre procedural planning.
‑
Page 12 of 15ANUMANA, INC WATCHMATE SOFTWARE
TRADITIONAL 510(K) PREMARKET NOTIFICATION
510(k) Summary
SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE
The WatchMate Software and the predicate device, TruPlan CT Imaging Software (K222593), both
are prescription-use systems intended for adult patients undergoing left atrial appendage closure
(LAAC) procedures. Like the predicate, WatchMate provides 3D visualization, measurement, and
annotation tools to support pre-procedural planning; however, it differs primarily in its use of
TEE-based input data rather than CT, and in its machine-learning-driven workflows for TEE view
recognition, 3D reconstruction, and landing-zone estimation. Both systems employ AI/ML for
segmentation or initialization tasks with required clinician confirmation, offer comparable 2D/3D
visualization and measurement capabilities, and are DICOM-compliant. WatchMate’s
hardware/software environment (Linux-based GPU workstation with iPad client) differs from
TruPlan’s Windows/macOS client-server architecture yet both incorporate secure data handling
and cybersecurity controls. Non-clinical testing demonstrated that WatchMate meets all design,
performance, and cybersecurity requirements, and a prospective multicenter clinical study
confirmed its non-inferior performance to the average of three blinded physician-interpreted 2D
TEE readers against a unanimous-consensus three-reader CT reference standard, for LAAC
landing-zone measurement. Overall, the differences in input modality, workflow, and platform do
not raise new questions of safety or effectiveness.
PERFORMANCE DATA [807.92(B)]
[807.92(B)(1)] NONCLINICAL TESTING SUMMARY:
Anumana has completed comprehensive design verification and validation testing, including
software verification & validation (Unit/Integration/System); cybersecurity testing (product
security) and labeling verification testing to ensure that the proposed WatchMate met its intended
use and to confirm that differences between the subject and predicate device do not raise new and
different questions of safety and effectiveness. WatchMate also provided clinical validation
testing.
All necessary performance testing was conducted on WatchMate with passing results supporting
the determination of substantial equivalence to the predicate device. Please refer to Verification
and Validation Testing attachment of eSTAR section Software/Firmware, Cybersecurity, and
Interoperability. The testing included following:
1. Software Verification Testing
a. Software Unit Testing
Unit testing was performed on the individual software components. Tests verified
component-level functionality, including the AI/ML pipeline, APIs, and frontend
components. All unit tests passed, and no design or code changes were required
beyond documentation updates.
b. System and Integration Testing
System testing evaluated the fully integrated software system using a
production-equivalent build. Testing confirmed compliance with functional,
usability, compatibility, data-management, DICOM-conformance, error-handling,
and quality requirements.
Page 13 of 15ANUMANA, INC WATCHMATE SOFTWARE
TRADITIONAL 510(K) PREMARKET NOTIFICATION
510(k) Summary
2. Cybersecurity Testing
Cybersecurity verification included evaluation of the product’s resilience to cybersecurity threats.
A Mock Environment Cybersecurity Test was also conducted to confirm secure performance within
a simulated intended-use deployment environment. Testing assessed API security, secure data
storage, and system behavior under potential threat conditions. All cybersecurity controls met
acceptance criteria.
3. Labeling Verification
Labeling verification confirmed that labeling content—including the Instructions for Use and
Installation Manual—is accurate, complete, and compliant with applicable requirements. All
labeling requirements were verified using the Labeling Verification Datasheet and Report, and all
acceptance criteria were met.
[807.92(B)(2)] CLINICAL TESTING SUMMARY:
A prospective, multi-center clinical data collection study (NCT07126600) was conducted to
evaluate the performance of the Anumana’s WatchMate Software in patients undergoing left atrial
appendage closure (LAAC). The study was designed to validate WatchMate measurements of left
atrial appendage (LAA) anatomy using intra-procedural 2D transesophageal echocardiography
(TEE) as input and contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) as the reference standard. All
imaging was collected as part of routine standard-of-care clinical practice, and no investigational
procedures were performed.
The CT reference standard was established using three independent expert cardiac CT readers.
Each reader independently measured LAA parameters while blinded to the other readers’
measurements, the TEE images and WatchMate outputs. A structured unanimous-consensus
methodology was applied. The 2D TEE comparator was established using the average of all three
blinded TEE readers performing measurements in accordance with the WATCHMAN Instructions
for Use.
A total of 100 subjects were enrolled across 6 U.S. centers, with 72 subjects included in the
per-protocol (PP) population. Exclusions occurred due to unanalyzable TEE data or WatchMate 2D–
3D inconsistency check.
The primary endpoint evaluated non-inferiority of WatchMate to the average of three
physician-interpreted 2D TEE readers in quantifying the LAA landing zone maximum diameter, with
the consensus CT serving as the ground truth. Non-inferiority was achieved as shown below:
• Mean absolute deviation vs. CT: WatchMate 3.1 ± 3.4 mm, Physician-interpreted 2D TEE
(average of three readers) 5.2 ± 3.4 mm
• Difference (WatchMate – TEE): –2.1 mm, upper 97.5% CI -0.9 mm, meeting the
pre-specified non-inferiority margin of 1 mm (P < 0.001)
The upper bound of the 97.5% confidence interval was less than zero, so superiority of WatchMate
over the average of three 2D TEE readers was also demonstrated.
The primary endpoint was re-computed using each individual CT reader as the reference standard
(with the 2D TEE comparator held fixed as the average of three TEE readers); non-inferiority was
met under each of the three alternative CT reference standards. The endpoint was also re-
Page 14 of 15ANUMANA, INC WATCHMATE SOFTWARE
TRADITIONAL 510(K) PREMARKET NOTIFICATION
510(k) Summary
computed using each individual TEE reader as the comparator against the consensus CT reference
standard; non-inferiority was met for each of the three TEE readers (P < 0.001 in all three analyses).
Additional descriptive endpoints (landing zone maximum depth and landing zone minimum
diameter) demonstrated WatchMate performance comparable to physician-interpreted 2D TEE
relative to CT. Bland–Altman analyses showed minimal systematic bias for WatchMate in landing
zone maximum diameter, whereas 2D TEE demonstrated consistent underestimation.
Subgroup analyses (sex, age, race, ethnicity, LAA morphology) showed no significant interactions,
indicating consistent performance across clinically relevant sub-groups.
Overall, clinical testing demonstrated that the Anumana WatchMate Software is non-inferior to the
average of three physician-interpreted 2D TEE readers for quantifying LAA landing zone maximum
diameter when compared with a multi-reader consensus CT reference standard, supporting its use
for visualization and measurement of cardiac structures during LAAC planning.
CONCLUSIONS [807.92(B)(3)]
The proposed WatchMate is substantially equivalent to the predicate device, TruPlan (K222593).
Both devices have the same general fundamental purpose: “adjunctive, clinician directed Left
Atrial Appendage Closure (LAAC) planning.” Anumana has performed comprehensive verification
and validation activities to demonstrate that the WatchMate meets all required specifications. The
testing demonstrates that the technological differences between the proposed predicate and
references devices do not raise different questions of safety or effectiveness.
Page 15 of 15