May 14, 2026
Aidoc Medical , Ltd.
Amalia Schreier
Chief Regulatory and Legal Officer
34 Hamasger St.
Tel Aviv, 6721119
Israel
Re: K261317
Trade/Device Name: BriefCase-Triage
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2080
Regulation Name: Radiological Computer Aided Triage And Notification Software
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QAS
Dated: April 21, 2026
Received: April 21, 2026
Dear Amalia Schreier:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.08.05
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK261317 - Amalia Schreier Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality Management System Regulation
(QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820), which includes, but is not limited to, ISO 13485 clause 7.3 (Design controls),
ISO 13485 clause 8.3 (Nonconforming product), ISO 13485 clause 8.5.2 (Corrective action), and ISO 13485
clause 8.5.3 (Preventative action). Please note that regardless of whether a change requires premarket review,
the QMSR requires device manufacturers to review and approve changes to device design and production
(ISO 13485 clause 7.3 and ISO 13485 clause 7.5) and document changes and approvals in the Medical
Device File (ISO 13485 clause 4.2.3).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact theK261317 - Amalia Schreier Page 3
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureK261317
510(k) Summary
Aidoc Medical, Ltd.’s Briefcase-Triage
Submitter:
Aidoc Medical, Ltd.
34 Hamasger St.
Tel-Aviv, Israel
Phone: +972-73-7946870
Contact Person: Amalia Schreier, LL.M
Date Prepared: April 21, 2026
Name of Device: Briefcase-Triage
Classification Name: Radiological computer-assisted triage and notification software
device
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QAS
Primary Predicate Device: Briefcase for VO (K220709)
Reference Device: BriefCase-Triage CARE Multi-Triage CT for Pneumothorax; Pericardial
effusion; Large aortic aneurysm; Shoulder fracture or dislocation
(K253578)
Device Description
Briefcase-Triage is a radiological computer-assisted triage and notification software device.
The software is based on an algorithm programmed component and is intended to run on a linux-based
server in a cloud environment.
The Briefcase-Triage receives filtered DICOM Images, and processes them chronologically by running the
algorithms on each series to detect suspected cases. Following the AI processing, the output of the
algorithm analysis is transferred to an image review software (desktop application). When a suspected
case is detected, the user receives a pop-up notification and is presented with a compressed, low-quality,
grayscale image that is captioned “not for diagnostic use, for prioritization only” which is displayed as a
1preview function. This preview is meant for informational purposes only, does not contain any marking
of the findings, and is not intended for primary diagnosis beyond notification.
Presenting the users with worklist prioritization facilitates efficient triage by prompting the user to assess
the relevant original images in the PACS. Thus, the suspect case receives attention earlier than would
have been the case in the standard of care practice alone.
The algorithm was trained during software development on images of the pathology. As is customary in
the field of machine learning, deep learning algorithm development consisted of training on labeled
(“tagged”) images. In that process, each image in the training dataset was tagged based on the presence
of the critical finding.
Intended Use / Indications for Use
BriefCase-Triage is a radiological computer aided triage and notification software indicated for use in the
analysis of head CTA images in adults or transitional adolescents aged 18 and older. The device is
intended to assist hospital networks and appropriately trained medical specialists in workflow triage by
flagging and communication of suspected positive findings of complete Large Vessel Occlusion (LVO) -
MCA-M1, PCA-P1, ACA-A1, ICA, Basilar; and Medium Vessel Occlusions (MeVO) - MCA-M2,
MCA-proximal M3, PCA-P2, PCA-proximal P3, ACA-A2, ACA-proximal A3, and Vertebral-V4.
BriefCase-Triage uses an artificial intelligence algorithm to analyze images and highlight cases with
detected findings in parallel to the ongoing standard of care image interpretation. The user is presented
with notifications for cases with suspected findings. Notifications include compressed preview images
that are meant for informational purposes only and not intended for diagnostic use beyond notification.
The device does not alter the original medical image and is not intended to be used as a diagnostic
device. The results of BriefCase-Triage are intended to be used in conjunction with other patient
information and based on their professional judgment, to assist with triage/prioritization of medical
images. Notified clinicians are responsible for viewing full images per the standard of care.
Summary of Technological Characteristics
The subject Briefcase-Triage for VO and the algorithm analysis module for the predicate Briefcase for VO
(K220709) are identical and differ only with respect to the inclusion criteria (addition of mCTA images).
Both the predicate and subject devices are radiological computer-aided triage and notification software
programs. Both devices are artificial intelligence, deep-learning algorithms incorporated in software
components for use with DICOM compliant CT scanners, PACS, and radiology workstations.
Both devices are intended to aid in triage and prioritization of radiological images and utilize the same
design of deep learning algorithm trained on medical images. Both devices are intended to provide the
specialists with notifications and unannotated, compressed, low-quality, and grayscale preview images of
suspect studies for the purpose of preemptive triage.
The subject and predicate Briefcase-Triage devices raise the same types of safety and effectiveness
questions, namely, accurate triage of findings within the processed study. It is important to note that, like
2the predicate, the subject device neither removes cases from the standard of care reading queue nor
de-prioritized cases. Both devices operate in parallel with the standard of care, which remains the
default option for all cases.
A table comparing the key features of the subject and the primary predicate devices is provided below.
Table 1. Key Feature Comparison
Subject Device Predicate Device
Aidoc’s Briefcase-Triage for VO Aidoc’s Briefcase for VO (K220709)
BriefCase-Triage is a radiological computer BriefCase is a radiological computer aided
Intended
aided triage and notification software triage and notification software indicated
Use /
for use in the analysis of head CTA images
indicated for use in the analysis of head CTA
Indication
in adults or transitional adolescents aged
images in adults or transitional adolescents
s for Use
18 and older. The device is intended to
aged 18 and older. The device is intended to
assist hospital networks and
assist hospital networks and appropriately
appropriately trained medical specialists
trained medical specialists in workflow in workflow triage by flagging and
triage by flagging and communication of communication of suspected positive
suspected positive findings of complete findings of complete Large Vessel
Occlusion (LVO) - MCA-M1, PCA-P1,
Large Vessel Occlusion (LVO) - MCA-M1,
ACA-A1, ICA, Basilar; and Medium Vessel
PCA-P1, ACA-A1, ICA, Basilar; and Medium
Occlusions (MeVO) - MCA-M2,
Vessel Occlusions (MeVO) - MCA-M2,
MCA-proximal M3, PCA-P2, PCA-proximal
MCA-proximal M3, PCA-P2, PCA-proximal P3, ACA-A2, ACA-proximal A3, and
P3, ACA-A2, ACA-proximal A3, and Vertebral-V4.
Vertebral-V4.
BriefCase uses an artificial intelligence
BriefCase-Triage uses an artificial algorithm to analyze images and highlight
cases with detected findings in parallel to
intelligence algorithm to analyze images
the ongoing standard of care image
and highlight cases with detected findings
interpretation. The user is presented with
in parallel to the ongoing standard of care
notifications for cases with suspected
image interpretation. The user is presented
findings. Notifications include
with notifications for cases with suspected compressed preview images that are
findings. Notifications include compressed meant for informational purposes only
preview images that are meant for and not intended for diagnostic use
beyond notification. The device does not
informational purposes only and not
alter the original medical image and is
intended for diagnostic use beyond
not intended to be used as a diagnostic
notification. The device does not alter the
device. The results of BriefCase are
original medical image and is not intended
intended to be used in conjunction with
to be used as a diagnostic device. The other patient information and based on
3Subject Device Predicate Device
Aidoc’s Briefcase-Triage for VO Aidoc’s Briefcase for VO (K220709)
results of BriefCase-Triage are intended to their professional judgment, to assist
be used in conjunction with other patient with triage/prioritization of medical
images. Notified clinicians are responsible
information and based on their professional
for viewing full images per the standard
judgment, to assist with triage/prioritization
of care.
of medical images. Notified clinicians are
responsible for viewing full images per the
standard of care.
User Hospital networks and appropriately trained Hospital networks and appropriately
populatio medical specialists trained medical specialists
n
Head Head
Anatomic
al region
of interest
Head CTA/mCTA Head CTA
Data
acquisitio
n protocol
Notificatio Yes Yes
n-only
(/notificati
on alerts),
parallel
workflow
tool
Images DICOM DICOM
format
Interferen No. No cases are removed from No. No cases are removed from
ce with
desktop app or deprioritized desktop app or deprioritized
4Subject Device Predicate Device
Aidoc’s Briefcase-Triage for VO Aidoc’s Briefcase for VO (K220709)
standard
workflow
Inclusion Criteria Inclusion Criteria
Inclusion/
● Head CTA or mCTA images . ● Head CTA protocol with a 64-slice
Exclusion ● Scans performed on adults/ scanner or higher.
criteria for transitional adults ≥ 18 years of age. ● Scans performed on adults/
● Slice thickness 0.5 mm – 1.25 mm. transitional adults ≥ 18 years of
clinical
Exclusion Criteria age.
performa
● All studies that have an inadequate ● Slice thickness 0.5 mm – 1.25 mm.
nce
field of view. Exclusion Criteria
testing ● All scans that are technically
inadequate, including motion
artifacts, severe metal artifacts,
suboptimal bolus timing or an
inadequate field of view.
Algorithm Artificial intelligence algorithm with Artificial intelligence algorithm with
database of images. database of images.
Structure - Integrated with image routing module - AHS module ( image acquisition);
via image communication platform (ICP)
- ACS module (image processing);
(image acquisition).
- Aidoc Desktop Application for
- Algorithm module (image processing)
workflow integration (Feed/Worklist
- Integrated with desktop application for (alternate names) and
workflow integration (feed and non-diagnostic Image Viewer).
non-diagnostic Image Viewer).
Performance Data
Pivotal Study Summary
Aidoc conducted a retrospective, blinded, multicenter study is designed to evaluate the performance of
the BriefCase Software Application for Vessel Occlusion (VO) triage when using mCTA acquisition
protocols. The study assessed the software’s accuracy in flagging suspected mCTA VO findings. BriefCase
accuracy was determined by comparing its positive/negative determination to ground truth established
by 2+1 expert, U.S. board-certified radiologist reviewers using majority voting.
5The primary objective was is to evaluate the accuracy of the BriefCase Software Algorithm in analysis and
identification of Vessel Occlusion (VO) findings in head CT images exams using mCTA acquisition
protocol. For this subset analysis, the sensitivity and specificity of BriefCase was estimated and reported
to characterize performance within this population. Positive Predictive Value (PPV), Negative Predictive
Value (NPV), Positive Likelihood Ratio (PLR), and Negative Likelihood Ratio (NLR) were also assessed.
Primary Endpoint
Sensitivity was 81.4% (95% CI: 71.6-89%) and Specificity was 85.5% (95% CI: 78-91.2%).
Since VO performance using mCTA protocol and overall VO performance are comparable and are both
exceeding the 80% sensitivity and specificity thresholds, the primary endpoint was met.
Secondary Endpoint
NPV was 97.6% (95% CI: 96.4%-98.5%) and PPV was 38.4% (95% CI: 28.7%-49.1%).
PLR was 5.6 (95% CI: 3.6-8.7) and NLR was 0.22 (95% CI: 0.14-0.34).
Time-to-notification (In this case, flagged scan details input into the Aidoc worklist) analysis was
calculated as 1.09 minutes (compared to 2.23 minutes, of the predicate).
Cybersecurity
Cybersecurity has been incorporated into the software development lifecycle in alignment with Section
524B of the FD&C Act and FDA cybersecurity guidance. Aidoc has implemented a risk-based approach to
cybersecurity, including secure design practices, vulnerability assessments, a Software Bill of Materials
(SBOM), and penetration testing. These efforts support the safety, effectiveness, and resilience of the
software against cybersecurity threats.
Conclusions
The subject Briefcase-Triage for VO and the predicate Briefcase for VO (K220709) are intended to aid in
prioritization and triage of radiological images for the indications for suspected positive findings of vessel
occlusions. Both devices are software components consisting of the same deep learning AI algorithm
that process images and produce analysis results, which are displayed to the user by a prioritization alert
and a compressed, low-quality, grayscale, unannotated preview image. In both devices, the labeling
clearly states that the devices are not for diagnostic use and instructs the user to further evaluate and
diagnose based only on the original images in the local PACS.
Both devices operate in parallel to the standard of care workflow in the sense that they do not change
the original image, do not provide any marking on the output preview, do not remove images from the
standard of care FIFO queue and do not de-prioritize cases, thus not disturbing standard interpretation
6of the images. Both devices notify the radiologist of time-sensitive critical cases within the range of
several minutes, and thus contribute similarly to the standard of care workflow turnaround time
reduction through preemptive triage.
The subject Briefcase-Triage device for VO is thus substantially equivalent to the primary predicate
Briefcase for VO (K220709).
7