Medicrea International S.A.S. (Medtronic)
Hajar BOULMAN
Sr Regulatory Affairs Specialist
5389 Rte. De Strasbourg - Vancia
Rillieux-La-Pape, 69140
France May 15, 2026
Re: K261289
Trade/Device Name: UNiD™ Spine Analyzer (SW3002)
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical image management and processing system
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QIH, LLZ
Dated: April 17, 2026
Received: April 20, 2026
Dear Hajar BOULMAN:
We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue Doc ID# 04017.07.05
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.govK261289 - Hajar BOULMAN Page 2
Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR Part 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart
A)for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections
531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.
All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. SeeK261289 - Hajar BOULMAN Page 3
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,
Jessica Lamb, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Imaging Software Team
DHT8B: Division of Radiological Imaging
Devices and Electronic Products
OHT8: Office of Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
EnclosureIndications for Use
Please type in the marketing application/submission number, if it is known. This
K261289
?
textbox will be left blank for original applications/submissions.
.
Please provide the device trade name(s). ?.
H.e
UNiD™ Spine Analyzer (SW3002)
lp.
HTee
lxpt
Please provide your Indications for Use below. ?
Te
.
xt
The UNiD™ Spine Analyzer is intended for assisting healthcare professionals in viewing and measuring
.
images as well as planning orthopedic surgeries. The device allows surgeons and service providers to
He
perform generic, as well as spine related measurements on images, and to plan surgical procedures. The
lp
device also includes tools for measuring anatomical components for placement of surgical implants. Clinical
Te
judgment and experience are required to properly use the software.
xt
Please select the types of uses (select one or both, as Prescription Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart D)
?
applicable). Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
.
Please select the age group(s) for which the device(s) is Neonates/Newborns (Birth to < 29 days old) .
to be used. Infants (29 days old to < 2 years old) He
lp
X Children (2 years old to < 12 years old) ?
Te
.
X Adolescents (12 years old to < 22 years old)
xt
.
X Adults (22 years old and greater)
.
.
He
lp
Te
xtMEDICREA INTERNATIONAL (MEDTRONIC)
Special 510(k) Application – UNiD Spine Analyzer
Page 1 of 5
510(k) Summary
As required by 21 CFR 807.87(h)
The 510(k) Summary is presented on the next page.
The remainder of this page is intentionally left blank
510(k) Summary
MEDICREA INTERNATIONAL S.A.S (MEDTRONIC), 5389 route de Strasbourg - Vancia - 69140 Rillieux-la-Pape • France
Tel +33(0)4 72 01 87 87 Fax +33 (0)4 72 01 87 88510(k) Summary
UNiD™ Spine Analyzer
Date prepared: April 17, 2026
I. Submitter information
Submitter MEDICREA INTERNATIONAL S.A.S. (MEDTRONIC)
5389 Route de Strasbourg – Vancia
Rillieux-la-Pape, 69140
France
Phone : 00 33 4 72 01 87 87
Contact Hajar BOULMAN
Person Sr Regulatory Affairs Specialist
MEDTRONIC
II. Device identification
Trade name UNiD™ Spine Analyzer
Classification Common Name Automated radiological image processing
Regulation software
Primary Product Code QIH
Associated Product Code LLZ
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name Medical Image Management and Processing
System
Class 2
III. Predicate and reference devices
Primary Device name UNiD™ Spine Analyzer 5.0.0
predicate 510(k) information K251629, cleared on 08/07/2025
device Common Name Automated radiological image processing
software
Primary Product Code QIH
Product Code LLZ
Regulation Number 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name Medical image management and processing
system
Class 2
IV. Subject device description
The device description is identical to the predicate device.
The UNiD™ Spine Analyzer is a web-based application developed to perform preoperative and postoperative
patient image measurements and simulate preoperative planning steps for spine surgery. It aims to make
measurements on a patient image, simulate a surgical strategy, draw patient-specific rods or choose from a
pre-selection of standard implants. The UNiD™ Spine Analyzer allows the user to:
1. Measure radiological images using generic tools and “specialty” tools
2. Plan and simulate aspects of surgical procedures
3. Estimate the compensatory effects of the simulated surgical procedure on the patient’s spine
The planning of surgical procedures is done by Medtronic as part of the service of pre-operative planning.
The surgical plan may then be used to assist in designing patient-specific implants. Surgeons will have to
validate the surgical plan before Medtronic manufactures any implant.The UNiD™ Spine Analyzer interface is accessible in either standalone mode or connected mode.
V. Intended use and indications for use
Intended use The intended use/indications for use are identical to the predicate device.
/ Indications The UNiD™ Spine Analyzer is intended for assisting healthcare professionals in viewing and
for use measuring images as well as planning orthopedic surgeries. The device allows surgeons and
service providers to perform generic, as well as spine related measurements on images, and
to plan surgical procedures. The device also includes tools for measuring anatomical
components for placement of surgical implants. Clinical judgment and experience are
required to properly use the software.
VI. Comparison of technological characteristics
The subject device has similar fundamental scientific technology, overall design, features, computer
configuration characteristics, intended use, and indications as the predicate device. The subject device and
the predicate device are intended to assist healthcare professionals in viewing and measuring images as well
as planning orthopedic surgeries.
The main software modifications incorporated into UNiD™ Spine Analyzer 5.1.0, as compared with the
predicate device, are summarized below:
• update the communication of the UNiD Spine Analyzer from UNiD™ HUB to Gaiteway™;
• unblocking of Degenerative Predictive Model in cases where femoral heads are not visible on the
image, using an indirect method based on a secondary image;
• transfer and correction of the L1-L4 and L4-S1 calculation from Lambda application to the UNiD™
Spine Analyzer system;
• update of the Predict Tool to prevent selection of a UIV/LIV outside the model’s specification;
• bug fixes in measurement tools and related workflows; and
• cybersecurity fixes.
The subject device and the predicate device are compared in the table below.
Predicate
Subject Device
Feature/ Attribute UNiD™ Spine Analyzer 5.0.0
UNiD™ Spine Analyzer 5.1.0
(K251629)
Product code(s) QIH, LLZ QIH, LLZ
Regulation number 892.2050 892.2050
Classification 2 2
The UNiD™ Spine Analyzer is intended The UNiD™ Spine Analyzer is intended
for assisting healthcare professionals for assisting healthcare professionals
in viewing and measuring images as in viewing and measuring images as
well as planning orthopedic surgeries. well as planning orthopedic surgeries.
The device allows surgeons and The device allows surgeons and
service providers to perform generic, service providers to perform generic,
Intended use / Indications as well as spine related measurements as well as spine related measurements
for use on images, and to plan surgical on images, and to plan surgical
procedures. The device also includes procedures. The device also includes
tools for measuring anatomical tools for measuring anatomical
components for placement of surgical components for placement of surgical
implants. Clinical judgment and implants. Clinical judgment and
experience are required to properly experience are required to properly
use the software. use the software.Fundamental scientific
Standalone software Standalone software
technology
Computer PC Compatible PC Compatible
Operating System Windows + Mac Windows + Mac
Supply mean Cloud-based Cloud-based
Health Data Host AWS AWS
Frontend code Angular 14 & Angular JS 1.7 Angular 14 & Angular JS 1.7
Backend code .NET 8.0 .NET 8.0
Databases server SQL Server SQL Server
Required for interpretation and Required for interpretation and
Human intervention
manipulation of images manipulation of images
Supported image format JPEG; PNG; GIF JPEG; PNG; GIF
Standalone or connected mode (via Standalone or connected mode (via
Access mode
Gaiteway software) UNiD™ HUB software)
Feature Contrast; brightness; zoom in/out; flip, Contrast; brightness; zoom in/out; flip,
- Image setting rotate, text overlay, calibration rotate, text overlay, calibration
Feature Line; circle; angle; measured, Line; circle; angle; measured,
- Generic measurements simulated, and normative values simulated, and normative values
tools display; values color-coding display; values color-coding
Llordo; TKypho; pelvic; T1SPi; SVA; SA Llordo; TKypho; pelvic; T1SPi; SVA; SA
Analysis; Sagittal wizard; Coronal Analysis; Sagittal wizard; Coronal
Feature
wizard; Transitional anatomy (as part wizard; Transitional anatomy (as part
- Spine measurements
of SA Analysis or Sagittal wizard); of Sagittal wizard); Cervical; Lenke
tools
Cervical; Lenke classification; Coronal classification; Coronal correction
correction factor factor
Feature Wedge; open; resect; wedge auto; Wedge; open; resect; wedge auto;
- Surgical tools open auto; resect auto; spondy open auto; resect auto; spondy
Free Rod; cage; screw; screw Free Rod; cage; screw; screw
Feature
selection; Rod Auto; cage auto; screw selection; Rod Auto; cage auto; screw
- Implants tools
wizard; postop screw wizard; postop screw
Adaptix PLIF, Capstone Control PLIF, Adaptix PLIF, Capstone Control PLIF,
Feature
Capstone PLIF, Clydesdale, Crescent, Capstone PLIF, Clydesdale, Crescent,
- Implants database
Divergence, IB3D PL, Pivox, Sovereign Divergence, IB3D PL, Pivox, Sovereign
Feature Degenerative; Adult Deformity; Degenerative; Adult Deformity;
- AI algorithms Pediatric Deformity Pediatric Deformity
• As an image (.jpeg) • As an image (.jpeg)
• As a ZIP file comprising: • As a ZIP file comprising:
- The initial image w/ and w/o - The initial image w/ and w/o
measures (.jpeg) measures (.jpeg)
- The plan simulated image (.jpeg) - The plan simulated image (.jpeg)
Features - The rod geometric parameters - The rod geometric parameters
- UNiD™ plan export (.txt) (.txt)
- All the drawn tools geometric - All the drawn tools geometric
parameters (.txt) parameters (.txt)
- The measures (.csv) - The measures (.csv)
• To Gaiteway™ to request plan • To Medtronic HUB to request plan
validation validation
Table 1: Substantial Equivalence ComparisonVII. Performance data
Nonclinical The following non-clinical performance data were provided in support of substantial
tests equivalence:
Risk Management:
Assessment performed according to ISO 14971 and Medtronic procedures. All hazards and
failures for the subject device have the same severity and occurrence as the predicate. No
new or unresolved unknown hazards, hazardous situations and harm were identified.
Usability Assessment
Usability of the UNiD™ Spine Analyzer user interface was evaluated according to IEC 62366-
1. The purpose was to assess new changes and ensure no usability issues could raise
significant risks in terms of safety and effectiveness.
Software verification
The software verification is a combination of software code inspection, code review, software
unit test, integration testing, non-regression testing and cybersecurity verification to ensure
the software is developed correctly and adheres to its design specifications. Software
verification was conducted on the UNiD™ Spine Analyzer in accordance with IEC 62304.
Software validation
The software validation was performed through user acceptance testing to ensure the
software satisfies the specified requirements and meets the user’s needs. It was conducted
on the UNiD™ Spine Analyzer in accordance with IEC 82304-1.
Statistical Assessment part of Design Validation activity
The assessment supports that the input data (femoral head centers or bifemoral mid-point)
obtained through the indirect method do not compromise the validity of the Degenerative
Predictive Model (DPM) v2.0 outputs.
Comparative analysis demonstrated no significant difference in predictive outputs.
Clinical tests No clinical testing was used to support this submission.
VIII. Conclusion
Based on the information contained in this submission, the subject UNiD™ Spine Analyzer v5.1.0 device is
substantially equivalent to the following predicate device:
UNiD™ Spine Analyzer v5.0.0 (K251629, S.E. 08/07/2025)